My goodness.
NOTE CONF
You're not sure?
Let me know.
NOTE CONF
I will, I will.
I don't know.
NOTE CONF
I'm sorry.
I will be back next week.
NOTE CONF
After that.
I was in Germany.
NOTE CONF
Almost every day seems to be talking about this.
I just want to ask you.
NOTE CONF
Yes or no?
At any point in your life.
NOTE CONF
Have you served.
Onions on a sesame seed bun.
NOTE CONF
McDonald's.
Yes or no?
NOTE CONF
That's it, I have.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
No.
The other job.
NOTE CONF
Um.
Can.
NOTE CONF
Can you guys be quiet for a second?
I'm going to have a I'm going to have somebody
NOTE CONF
speaking through my laptop, and I.
The sound is not working.
NOTE CONF
And so I'm just need to hear whether it's going
to work.
NOTE CONF
Is because there are people who work at McDonald's in
your country who are trying to be very quiet.
NOTE CONF
I work there as a student.
I was a kid.
NOTE CONF
Where it.
Where is the speaker?
NOTE CONF
Who worked there trying to raise families and pay rent
on it.
NOTE CONF
That works.
And I think part of the difference between me and
NOTE CONF
mine.
I'm not meaning to do a, um, a political announcement
NOTE CONF
here.
It was just I need this.
NOTE CONF
I just need the sound on this thing to work.
Okay?
NOTE CONF
Right.
So let me get started just a second.
NOTE CONF
Uh, right.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So, um.
NOTE CONF
Hi, everybody.
Uh, I guess most of you or all of you
NOTE CONF
will know me.
Um, as well as being your lecturer for informatics one
NOTE CONF
a I'm, um, exchange coordinator for School of Informatics.
So, um, I'm in charge of, uh, giving information about,
NOTE CONF
you know, exchanges that you can go on in your
third year.
NOTE CONF
And I also am in charge of allocating who goes
where for the exchanges that informatics, the School of Informatics,
NOTE CONF
runs.
Okay, there's I'll explain the system.
NOTE CONF
Um, so, uh, so this event is just to give
you information about this and uh, because the applications process
NOTE CONF
is coming up very soon and some of you might
have been at events today, um, run by the, uh,
NOTE CONF
by sway, which stands for Study and Work Away.
I think, um, they had events today in um, the
NOTE CONF
Informatics forum, um, publicity for this, for this thing.
And there's more things coming up.
NOTE CONF
This is going to be recorded so you can watch
it afterwards.
NOTE CONF
And there might be some people watching on live stream.
Um, and there's a, there's a URL here for my
NOTE CONF
FAQ, um, page for exchanges.
Okay, so let me just get into it.
NOTE CONF
So I'm going to be talking for about half an
hour, and then there's going to be six students talking,
NOTE CONF
uh, one after the other about their experiences.
I've got one who's um, visiting who's coming on live
NOTE CONF
from somewhere near the Grand Canyon, I think, uh, on
this on the autumn break while studying it, uh, Carnegie
NOTE CONF
Mellon and, um, and then the others are actually physically
here talking about what they did last year.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So this is about studying abroad in your third year,
NOTE CONF
uh, you would be going for a full year.
Um, we can't do single semester exchanges.
NOTE CONF
Um, we send, uh, you know, those sorts of numbers
of students every year abroad.
NOTE CONF
Um, it varies.
Uh, I think it's about 35 right now.
NOTE CONF
Um, this year.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
And there's a whole lot of universities you can go
to, and there's some of them that are, um, the
NOTE CONF
exchanges are run by the university as a whole, meaning
that for places on the exchange, you're competing with students
NOTE CONF
from the whole university.
And then there's others which are, um, run by informatics,
NOTE CONF
and they're you're just competing with each other for places.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Um, so, uh, and, and so there's just some universities,
there's, there's many more university.
NOTE CONF
It's called the university wide route.
And the bottom one is called the subject specific route.
NOTE CONF
Every school has its its exchanges and those are ours.
So, uh, university wide exchanges, there's lots of lots of
NOTE CONF
choices.
Um, the ones I put up, there are maybe ones
NOTE CONF
that might be of most interest to informatics students.
Um, uh, the ones that we run our are in
NOTE CONF
the bottom list.
And I'm going to talk about those in, you know,
NOTE CONF
I'm just going to go through them very quickly to
tell you what they are.
NOTE CONF
These universities and these are chosen for being, um, good
places for, um, computer science and artificial intelligence and um,
NOTE CONF
yes, there are some that are on both lists.
You, Penn and you, Maryland are on both lists.
NOTE CONF
Um, right.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So, uh, so the idea is you go away for
a year and you do a year, a sort of
NOTE CONF
full load of credit at some other university.
You can choose which courses you take, um, with few
NOTE CONF
restrictions.
Um, you go there, you do that, you you you,
NOTE CONF
uh, have a good time.
You learn a lot.
NOTE CONF
You have lots of interesting experiences.
And then when you come back, we check to make
NOTE CONF
sure that you did okay.
But your marks don't contribute towards your marks towards your
NOTE CONF
final degree result.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So the third year, uh, doesn't contribute normally.
The third and fourth years are used to calculate your
NOTE CONF
final or for fourth, third, fourth and fifth years are
used to calculate your final degree result.
NOTE CONF
In this case, it's only your fourth year or for
fourth and fifth years.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so what you get as long as it's as
long as it's sort of, uh, you know, passing, um,
NOTE CONF
uh, the marks don't contribute, the numeric amounts don't contribute.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So, um, and why would you want to do that?
I should say, okay.
NOTE CONF
Um, so it's it's an exciting opportunity.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So travel, new experiences develop as a person, you know,
all those sorts of things.
NOTE CONF
You get a chance to experience different educational approaches.
I mean, different countries do things in different ways.
NOTE CONF
And, um, that's, that's useful to see things from different
sides.
NOTE CONF
Um, there are career benefits like, um, you know, development
of personal skills and getting international experience looks good on
NOTE CONF
your CV when you come to be employed and developing
cultural awareness.
NOTE CONF
Um, uh, according to, um, the sway web pages, it
says that there's a correlation between people who go on
NOTE CONF
exchange and students getting good degrees like first and upper
second class degrees.
NOTE CONF
I think the the causation is the other direction.
Actually, I think that the students who are tending to
NOTE CONF
be the higher flyers are the ones who decide to
go on exchanges because they're maybe up for a challenge
NOTE CONF
more than the others.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
But anyway, uh, there is this correlation.
And then for some of you, I'm going to certain
NOTE CONF
places on this list, there might be the benefits of
learning a new language or developing your skill in some,
NOTE CONF
in some language other than English.
I mean, many of you probably, uh, for many of
NOTE CONF
you, English might not be your first language anyway.
Um, Okay, so here are the university, um, the, the
NOTE CONF
informatics owned exchanges.
So this is the going back to my list just
NOTE CONF
there.
This is the bottom the bottom list.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
I could say things about the universities on the top
NOTE CONF
list as well.
But these are the ones that we're in charge of
NOTE CONF
and that we've kind of personally gone and and set
up.
NOTE CONF
And in each case there's, there's a couple of students
who are going to go on these exchanges, um, different
NOTE CONF
numbers for different universities here.
So, um, EPFL, this is the first, the first list,
NOTE CONF
the first four are European universities, okay.
And the first two are Swiss universities.
NOTE CONF
These are the two best universities in Switzerland.
Um, and they're both very highly ranked for computer science
NOTE CONF
internationally.
So these are international rankings, you know, 10th best in
NOTE CONF
the world, ninth best in the world.
That's pretty good.
NOTE CONF
We are about 20th, um, or maybe lower, actually.
there's the university rank and there's the computer science, um,
NOTE CONF
uh, rank.
Anyway, um, so EPFL is, uh, is a is a
NOTE CONF
university in the French speaking speaking part of um, of
Switzerland on Lake Geneva.
NOTE CONF
Beautiful, beautiful location.
Um, uh, there are some courses in French, but the
NOTE CONF
courses that you would be taking would be in English.
Um, you know, they're sort of the lower level courses
NOTE CONF
are in French.
Um, and uh, the other university we are partnered with
NOTE CONF
in Switzerland is, um, ETH Zurich.
Um, and that's in the German speaking part of Switzerland,
NOTE CONF
also very highly rated for computer science.
And their lower level courses are in German.
NOTE CONF
But again, the courses you would be taking would be
in English.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Um, for both of the Swiss universities here.
NOTE CONF
There's funding from the Swiss government for exchange students.
It's not enough to cover the cost of living in
NOTE CONF
Switzerland, which is kind of very high, but at least
helps.
NOTE CONF
Okay, those are the only places on this list for
which there's funding.
NOTE CONF
Okay?
Uh, with the exception of something I'll come to later.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
The third university here is, um, uh, in Saarbrücken in,
NOTE CONF
in, in kind of south western Germany, uh, near the
French border.
NOTE CONF
Um, so, um, it's a German centre for AI, uh,
the courses that they teach in computer science and I
NOTE CONF
are in English, but otherwise they teach in German.
You don't need to be able to speak German to
NOTE CONF
live in Saarbrücken.
Okay, you also don't need to be able to speak
NOTE CONF
French or German to be able to to to live
in those those places in Switzerland.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
The last one here is a new a new partner
NOTE CONF
we had, um, uh, so, uh, yeah, however you pronounce
that University Autonoma do Barcelona.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
It's in Barcelona, which is a great city if you've
NOTE CONF
never been there in Spain.
Um, uh, it has, um, an AI degree which is
NOTE CONF
taught in English and computer science, uh, as well.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Uh, we had another partner in Barcelona that we stopped
using because they decided to to switch to, um, teaching
NOTE CONF
mostly in Catalan.
And, um, it used to be that we sent students
NOTE CONF
there who could speak Spanish, but we don't have enough.
Who speaks Catalan.
NOTE CONF
So this is a this good university.
But we we couldn't, you know, we couldn't use them
NOTE CONF
because of the the language problem.
Okay, I'm just whizzing through these to give you an
NOTE CONF
idea.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So these are all, you know, good universities in Europe
for computer science.
NOTE CONF
Um, I should say, by the way, numbers, uh, for,
uh, it used to be we sent to uh, uh,
NOTE CONF
two to.
Yeah, two, two, one and two.
NOTE CONF
And now it's we've increased because of the demand for
the Swiss universities.
NOTE CONF
We've increased this to four, three, one and two.
The numbers that we're sending.
NOTE CONF
So more this coming year than we've had in the
past, um, usually we, we have exchanges with two students
NOTE CONF
per, per destination.
Carnegie Mellon is absolutely top in computer science.
NOTE CONF
Um, it says here second for computer science.
Um, I would actually I mean, MIT I think is
NOTE CONF
first I would put Carnegie Mellon higher than, than MIT
personally.
NOTE CONF
But, um, uh, so this is um.
Uh, this is a very desirable place to go.
NOTE CONF
It's in Pittsburgh, in Pennsylvania, um, which is an attractive
city.
NOTE CONF
So, Pennsylvania, you've got Philadelphia on one end and Pittsburgh
on the other end, and in between, it's very rural.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So those are the two good cities in Pennsylvania.
NOTE CONF
Um, right.
We can only send one student there.
NOTE CONF
So that's very, uh, much in demand.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Um, the next one is, um, University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign.
NOTE CONF
So this is, uh, you know, another good university for
computer science.
NOTE CONF
It's in a rural part of Illinois, so it's kind
of Midwest.
NOTE CONF
Um.
Uh, not it's it's it's within reach of Chicago.
NOTE CONF
If you if you want to spend some hours on
a on a bus or a train.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
If you want to go to Chicago.
NOTE CONF
So otherwise it's in the middle of, of, of, you
know, countryside.
NOTE CONF
I'm very good for computer science.
Um, we send two students there.
NOTE CONF
University of Maryland is near Washington, D.C. it's in a
kind of a it's a it's a it's a it's
NOTE CONF
well, a small city that's basically just the university.
Um, and it's called a public Ivy University.
NOTE CONF
So you've heard of the Ivy League in the US.
So these are universities that are regarded as, uh, equivalent
NOTE CONF
level to the Ivy League universities, but they're public universities
instead of private universities.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Um, I visited there.
NOTE CONF
I think they have a very similar kind of view
of, of informatics as, as we have here.
NOTE CONF
So they have quite broad range of, of courses covering
things that, um, you know, are not normally taught in,
NOTE CONF
in computer science departments like we do here, you know,
stuff like neuro informatics.
NOTE CONF
Um, okay.
More American universities.
NOTE CONF
University of Pennsylvania is and is in Philadelphia.
So between New York and Washington DC, Ivy League university,
NOTE CONF
Donald Trump went there.
If that makes any difference to you.
NOTE CONF
Um, very good for computer science.
Um, I mean, anything in the top 100.
NOTE CONF
You know, I'm giving ranks here.
Anything in the top 100?
NOTE CONF
Well, let's say 50 or 70 or something.
Is is excellent.
NOTE CONF
Um, you know, top universities in the world.
So, um, very good university.
NOTE CONF
Um, you know, Ivy League, um, great computer science department.
Um, and we send four students there and the university,
NOTE CONF
this is also on the university, um, list of destinations.
And I don't think we get more than four because
NOTE CONF
I think the others University sends Many more than four
students to the University of Pennsylvania.
NOTE CONF
It was the very first exchange destination for the university.
And um, but I think we get our for and
NOTE CONF
then the rest of them go to students from the
rest of the university.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
University of Southern California is and is in LA.
NOTE CONF
Um, and we just started it this year, so I
don't have much experience there.
NOTE CONF
Students there right now.
Um, uh, it's, um.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
I don't know what to say about that.
NOTE CONF
I mean, la, you know, you can go surfing, um,
or do all the other things that one does in,
NOTE CONF
in Southern California.
Um, and it's a good university.
NOTE CONF
Uh, we have a brand new, um, uh, partner at
Cornell University.
NOTE CONF
It's on the list of university destinations, but now it's
also, um, Informatics, um, uh exchange.
NOTE CONF
So it's new this coming year.
That is to say, it's, uh, I'll be sending students
NOTE CONF
there, uh, you know, 20, 25, 26, um, 2025, 2026.
It's in, um, Ithaca, New York.
NOTE CONF
So that's near Niagara Falls, relatively near Niagara Falls.
So it's nowhere near Manhattan and New York City.
NOTE CONF
It's the other end of, um, New York State.
And New York State is large.
NOTE CONF
So, um, it's a it's a very pleasant, um, uh,
kind of rural location.
NOTE CONF
Um, the main thing in Ithaca is the university.
It's an Ivy League university.
NOTE CONF
It's very good for computer science.
Um, yeah.
NOTE CONF
And then finally on this list is Northwestern University, which
is, uh, in a suburb of Chicago.
NOTE CONF
And I don't know if this one's going to be.
I think it's going to be available next year, but
NOTE CONF
we haven't signed the contracts yet and so it's not
completely sure.
NOTE CONF
I think judging from the stage at which things are
at, I'm almost certain it's going to be it's going
NOTE CONF
to be on the list for next year.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Um, so it is one of the ones you can
choose in your preference list.
NOTE CONF
Uh, there's just a little question mark about what will
happen until we've actually got signatures on contracts.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So those are the destinations for informatics students.
NOTE CONF
Um, and that includes uh, with with some provisos.
That includes joint degree students.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So some of these are not for joint degree students
NOTE CONF
like this.
This one University of Southern California.
NOTE CONF
Uh, only for um, you know, informatics students and electronics
and computer science.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So if you're doing maths and computer science or something,
NOTE CONF
that's not for you, okay.
But generally these are also for joint degree students.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So the way this works is that you apply I
NOTE CONF
think the application is open at the end of October.
I don't remember the date exactly, but they close, uh,
NOTE CONF
like it says they're in the middle of November.
Um, you can give, um, a choice of five, uh,
NOTE CONF
universities in ranked order.
So first of all, you can make two applications, one
NOTE CONF
for the informatics exchanges and one for the university wide
exchanges.
NOTE CONF
And you can give for each of those.
You can give a list of five destinations you want
NOTE CONF
in order.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Um, you know first first choice, second choice, third choice
down to fifth choice.
NOTE CONF
They can be different choices, obviously.
Um, and the selection is based on the academic results
NOTE CONF
in your first year.
Um, and you have to write a, a little essay,
NOTE CONF
personal statement.
Um, the, the personal statement is taken.
NOTE CONF
It's a serious part of the, um, of the allocation
process for the university wide, um, exchanges.
NOTE CONF
Um, for the for the informatics exchanges, I, I take
it into account, but it's not it's not a very
NOTE CONF
significant part of the decision on who goes where.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So, um, uh, it's it's necessary that you submit it.
Um, but, um, but I'm looking mainly at academic results.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
I'll also interview all of the candidates for the subject
NOTE CONF
specific applicant, um, exchanges.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Short, short interview, mainly just to find out who you
are.
NOTE CONF
Um, not it's not something you're going to pass or
fail.
NOTE CONF
I just want to get to meet you, uh, before
I make this decision, the, um.
NOTE CONF
The process, the selection process is moderate to highly competitive,
which is strongly dependent on destination.
NOTE CONF
So I get I get, you know, 30 students who
want to go to Carnegie Mellon University.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So only one gets to go, um, uh, you know,
NOTE CONF
whereas for some of the other places, um, it's much
easier to get a place, obviously.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
And offers will be made in late December to mid-January.
NOTE CONF
And there's a, there's a kind of a sequence of,
uh, things that happens.
NOTE CONF
You get an offer, you decide whether to accept or
not.
NOTE CONF
And then there's a second phase of, um, offering the
places that are left over to students who haven't got
NOTE CONF
an offer the first time around.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
It's explained in the, um, sueh web pages.
Now, the way this works with, um, with finance is
NOTE CONF
that you don't have to pay tuition fees at your
host university, which is a relief for the American universities,
NOTE CONF
especially because they charge a lot more than Edinburgh University
does, but you do need to pay Edinburgh University fees
NOTE CONF
if you're somebody who has to pay Edinburgh University fees.
It varies, um, depending on, you know, so Scottish students
NOTE CONF
don't have to pay university fees in Scotland for example.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Um, you need to cover all your other costs yourself,
uh, travel accommodation etcetera, etcetera, etcetera.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
There might be some small fees at the host university,
NOTE CONF
things like, um, access to, I don't know, sports facilities
or something.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Um, there is.
NOTE CONF
So when, when, when the UK, uh, when we had
Brexit, um, the UK left a scheme called Erasmus, which
NOTE CONF
was for funding exchanges and, um, generous funding scheme for
going to European universities on exchange.
NOTE CONF
Um, and um, Boris Johnson said, oh, we're going to
have something much better.
NOTE CONF
It's going to be called the Turing grant.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
And so there are Turing grants, but the government has
not funded them adequately.
NOTE CONF
And so, um, in place of this generous funding scheme
for European university exchanges, we have a barely funded scheme
NOTE CONF
for worldwide exchanges.
And what that means is that basically nobody from Informatics
NOTE CONF
gets any money because it's used for funding things like,
um, students who are studying, um, you know, foreign languages
NOTE CONF
who are required to go abroad to do, um, uh,
you know, to the country which, which languages that they're,
NOTE CONF
that they're, that they're doing to, to do a sort
of language assistant placement.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
It is it is available also for students who are
NOTE CONF
have kind of family circumstances which mean that there, um,
you know, widening access is the terminology for, for students,
NOTE CONF
for example, whose family nobody in their family has ever
been to university.
NOTE CONF
Such students can can sometimes get some money from this,
but otherwise you're out of luck.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Um, you need to finance this yourself.
NOTE CONF
Uh, okay.
Uh, when you go on an exchange, you choose courses
NOTE CONF
that correspond somewhat to the courses you would have taken
in Edinburgh for a year.
NOTE CONF
Three insofar as possible.
In the end, you you can you can take pretty
NOTE CONF
much what you want, except that, um, has to be
a full load.
NOTE CONF
It has to be mainly computer science or whatever your
degree is.
NOTE CONF
And um, uh, if your course, if your degree program
requires computer security, which almost all third year degree programs
NOTE CONF
in computer science and and joint degrees require.
Then that's the course you should take when you're on
NOTE CONF
a when you're abroad.
But really, I encourage you to take advantage of the
NOTE CONF
opportunities you have to do things that you might not
have the opportunities to do here.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
And, um, important is to think about the prerequisites of
NOTE CONF
the courses that you're going to be taking in the
fourth year because you might need to get, I don't
NOTE CONF
know, machine learning or something, or natural language processing if
you want to take certain courses in your fourth year.
NOTE CONF
Um, I've already said marks don't contribute to the final
degree classification.
NOTE CONF
So the result for the final degree is based on
your final year marks only, and you have to be
NOTE CONF
a little bit careful with some of the restrictions at
the host universities.
NOTE CONF
Like, um, sometimes you're not allowed to take courses, very
many courses outside the department that your, uh, going on
NOTE CONF
exchange with.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So this this varies from, um, from case to case.
So I can't say anything in general.
NOTE CONF
It's something you'd have to figure out when you, when
you look at the universities and decide what courses you're
NOTE CONF
taking.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
And there's a bunch of questions that I'm not going
to answer right now, but they're answered in this, um,
NOTE CONF
at this URL down at the bottom here.
This is my frequently asked questions list.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Um.
NOTE CONF
Are there any questions at this point?
I have about five minutes.
NOTE CONF
And then my first, uh, student talk is coming up.
Anybody?
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
So about prerequisites for your courses, how do we know
NOTE CONF
that we have to take them?
Or is it more of a weighted case where during
NOTE CONF
the course, it takes something that will help you with
your form?
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So, um, You've walked out of the park.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so the way the way it works.
So there's I'm thinking of a specific course, um, which
NOTE CONF
has it's in fourth year course here.
It requires quite a lot of prerequisites in natural language
NOTE CONF
and machine learning area.
I don't remember what it's called, but, um, if you
NOTE CONF
want to take that course.
So if you are a student at Edinburgh University and
NOTE CONF
you haven't gone an exchange, then you can't take that
course unless you've taken the courses that are listed as
NOTE CONF
prerequisites.
If you've been on exchange, that requirement is relaxed.
NOTE CONF
So you won't have taken those courses because you won't
have been here to take those courses.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
But you're expected to have learned the material that's involved
NOTE CONF
in those courses.
And so if you look at your fourth year choices
NOTE CONF
and you decide, oh, I have a burning desire to
take that course, then you should be making sure that
NOTE CONF
when you're on exchange that you get courses that give
you the background or, you know, it could be that
NOTE CONF
you need to do a little bit of self-study to
fill in some gaps.
NOTE CONF
All right.
So, um, it might you might be disappointed if you
NOTE CONF
if you go and make all of your choices without
looking at what it is that you want to do
NOTE CONF
in fourth year here.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Anybody else?
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Uh, so you mentioned that, uh, academic results in the
first year.
NOTE CONF
Those are most important for going to a competitive uni.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Uh, however, if you have a lot of extracurriculars, like
good results in competitions and stuff like that.
NOTE CONF
Uh, what's the level of influence it will have on
your decision?
NOTE CONF
Uh, yeah.
So, um, small, small level of influence.
NOTE CONF
I'm looking.
I'm looking at course marks.
NOTE CONF
Um, mostly.
Okay, I will, you know, if those things are in
NOTE CONF
your.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Um, small, small, small influence.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
They're available for every second.
NOTE CONF
You said it for a couple of months, but yeah.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Let me go back.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Um, sorry.
Which one?
NOTE CONF
Starting from Sierra.
Starting from Maryland.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so the American universities, I.
So I think I'll just go through the whole list.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Uh, Carnegie Mellon one.
NOTE CONF
Oh, actually, let me go back here.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Um, uh, EPFL for, uh, ETH Zurich.
Three.
NOTE CONF
So universities one uh, Barcelona.
Two Carnegie Mellon.
NOTE CONF
One um, Illinois.
Uh, two Maryland two.
NOTE CONF
Pennsylvania four.
USC two.
NOTE CONF
Cornell two.
Northwestern two.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
And going back to the university list, it varies.
NOTE CONF
And I don't know I don't know how many there
are.
NOTE CONF
If there's a database somewhere that I could look it
up if you really need to know.
NOTE CONF
But, um.
Uh.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Somebody else?
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
The percentage of students that applied to this program, like
NOTE CONF
the whole class, the percentage that apply, or the percentage
who are successful.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Um, okay, we send about 35 this year, I think,
NOTE CONF
or 30 maybe.
I think 50 applied out of all of the students
NOTE CONF
who could apply.
So that's not a huge number.
NOTE CONF
And most of them were successful.
A most I mean, two thirds.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Anybody else?
NOTE CONF
Uh, I saw you first.
Sorry.
NOTE CONF
You talked to to speak up.
To university.
NOTE CONF
Did you say language certificates?
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Uh, language certificates?
NOTE CONF
Uh, yes.
Um, however, I think it's automatic if you if you've,
NOTE CONF
um, if you've been admitted here, you will have had
to submit a language certificate.
NOTE CONF
And I think that then, um, most universities will accept
that as evidence that you have the English language proficiency.
NOTE CONF
And for the universities where there's, um, for those universities
listed which are not in English speaking places, um, none
NOTE CONF
of them require a language certificate for that language.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Um, there was a question back there, and I'm soon
going to have to cut this off because, uh.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, yeah.
Send the USC joint programs.
NOTE CONF
Right.
Thus, I am committed to a program.
NOTE CONF
No, that doesn't count as a joint program.
And then there was a question somewhere here.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Uh, I'm on a student visa.
NOTE CONF
If I'm away for a year, how does that work?
I yeah, I don't know how it works with student
NOTE CONF
visas, and I'm not allowed to give advice on that.
So you have to ask the the part of the
NOTE CONF
universe that deals with that kind of thing.
I think.
NOTE CONF
I think it can be arranged, but I don't know
anything about the details.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
All right.
NOTE CONF
Um, I'm going to now, uh, move to Aurora, and
I hope she's here.
NOTE CONF
It looks like she's here.
Um, so let me see.
NOTE CONF
Aurora, can you hear me?
I can't hear you.
NOTE CONF
Oh, you're you're muted.
Aurora, can you hear me?
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Can you hear me?
NOTE CONF
Yes, now I can okay so wait a second I
the audio is not working here so I have to
NOTE CONF
fiddle with a little microphone okay.
so, um, I can't see anything, though.
NOTE CONF
If you have a presentation, I can't see it.
Yes.
NOTE CONF
Wait a minute.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Your presentation is coming up.
Great.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Um, right.
NOTE CONF
So, uh, Aurora is going to Carnegie Mellon University.
She's told me she's on a trip for her, um,
NOTE CONF
uh, autumn break.
And so, um, she's somewhere in Grand Canyon.
NOTE CONF
And the Grand Canyon.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Okay, good.
So go.
NOTE CONF
Go ahead.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So hi, guys.
I'm going to talk about my exchange currently.
NOTE CONF
In this overview about CMU, um, called Carnegie Mellon.
Which I only found out after I came here.
NOTE CONF
Didn't realise that.
And then the whole campus is very Scottish theme.
NOTE CONF
Our mascot is a Scottish terrier.
And then there are people playing bagpipes on campus, which
NOTE CONF
is very much a shock to me because I did
not expect that.
NOTE CONF
So, um, about its academic background, it's ranked number one
in computer science title MIT in the US.
NOTE CONF
So it's good for AI, cybersecurity, computer systems, programming languages,
and basically almost every computer science field.
NOTE CONF
And the academic year is from August to May.
So during the start of the year, um, the freshmen
NOTE CONF
would like kind of make this whole CMU photo.
And then this is our statue.
NOTE CONF
It's not very it's just a it's called walking towards
the sky, I think.
NOTE CONF
And then this was actually last week when there was
like Northern Lights, this was taken over.
NOTE CONF
Or over the campus.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
You're you're, uh.
So in general, I sorry.
NOTE CONF
I'm just saying the audio is not great, but carry
on.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Um, do you need me to repeat anything?
NOTE CONF
No, I think that's okay so far.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Um, okay.
So, um.
NOTE CONF
For life in Pittsburgh, I'd say costs and accommodation wise.
Um, it's more expensive than Edinburgh.
NOTE CONF
Buying groceries is more expensive.
Um, eating out is usually also more expensive because you
NOTE CONF
have to tip.
And I didn't manage to get on campus housing because
NOTE CONF
of a whole fiasco.
Like over registered there for years or something.
NOTE CONF
But I'd say for campus housing, they're all double rooms.
So if you do manage to get, um, accommodation, you'd
NOTE CONF
have to share with a stranger.
And then for campus food, it's decent, but I would
NOTE CONF
not recommend buying meal blocks because you can actually buy
them for cheaper off the freshman or other people who
NOTE CONF
bought too many.
And exchange blocks with other people.
NOTE CONF
Um.
Far away from campus because the nearest Aldi was like
NOTE CONF
is 25 minutes walk away from for me.
And um, there's also a huge target, but then you'd
NOTE CONF
have to take the bus to get there, so it's
not very walkable in general.
NOTE CONF
Um, with our CMU student ID, you can get free
bus just like the young Scot card.
NOTE CONF
But, um, it's also better to just be friends, um,
with someone with a car, because although the bus is
NOTE CONF
free, it doesn't come very, like, frequently or on time.
So I'd recommend just befriending someone with the car and
NOTE CONF
having them drive you.
Um, so for things to do in Pittsburgh, there are
NOTE CONF
games, um, American games.
You have baseball.
NOTE CONF
The team in Pittsburgh is Pirates football, the team of
Steelers and, um, hockey, the Columbus Penguins.
NOTE CONF
I've been to a baseball game once, didn't really know
what was going on, but it was worth the experience.
NOTE CONF
There were fireworks and then there's an incline.
So, um, the top left photo is the incline.
NOTE CONF
Something is right off.
And look at this table.
NOTE CONF
There's the Botanic Garden, and it's really pretty.
It's really near campus as well.
NOTE CONF
You can just walk there and show them your ID
and they'll let you in for free.
NOTE CONF
The theme changes every month or so, and the recent
theme was Under the sea.
NOTE CONF
So hence the cloud and everything.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So, um, academic life, um, Carnegie Mellon University is a
very tough university.
NOTE CONF
There's a lot of workload.
Um, although although that, um, there are a lot of
NOTE CONF
courses to choose from, like basically everything within C is
that you can think of, there probably is a course
NOTE CONF
because, um, there are courses within and outside the School
of Computer Science.
NOTE CONF
Um, apart from there's also like information that working institute,
there's like cybersecurity institute, there's um electrical engineering.
NOTE CONF
They all offer like CSE related courses.
So there's just really a lot of courses to choose
NOTE CONF
from.
Um, and we can also take undergrad or post-grad courses.
NOTE CONF
Adding on to the options.
Um, there's also this really thing called student.
NOTE CONF
Students.
And they're also usually really fun and really chill.
NOTE CONF
It's not one of the main courses that you would
take.
NOTE CONF
It's something you add on.
But it's a really interesting experience because the courses are
NOTE CONF
taught by students and they're all usually on a fun
topic.
NOTE CONF
Currently, I'm taking one on like Brooklyn Nine-Nine, so that's
pretty fun.
NOTE CONF
Um, for my workload, I'd say it really depends on
the course, but most of the undergrad CSE courses are
NOTE CONF
very intensive.
Um, my friends are also doing like other CSE, like
NOTE CONF
postgrad courses, and there's still a lot of, like, projects
to do.
NOTE CONF
Uh, for undergrad courses, it's roughly one homework per week
per course that take around like 6 to 8 hours
NOTE CONF
to complete.
I'd say one homework is kind of like a coursework
NOTE CONF
from, let's say, Iads or something.
And then for each course, it varies by course obviously,
NOTE CONF
but usually there are two midterms and one final.
And my my culture shock was like when there are
NOTE CONF
no assignment like there are.
Completing the assignments and studying for the midterm.
NOTE CONF
But office hours are basically, um, we have them in
Edinburgh too, but I think it's not as big as
NOTE CONF
a big other thing like here.
People line up to go to office hours, and usually
NOTE CONF
it's a really long line, and people ask about homework
or things about the courses that they don't understand.
NOTE CONF
It's a really big culture among them, and the Tas
are also students, so it's a bonding experience, I guess.
NOTE CONF
So for research, you can contact professors and ask them
to like if you want to help with their research.
NOTE CONF
Um, so CMU offers independent study credits that you can
take.
NOTE CONF
So if you want to do research and you want
them to count towards your degree, you can speak with
NOTE CONF
the academic advisor, but.
And then you can turn that into a course.
NOTE CONF
Um, it's easier to just, um, reach out to a
professor that you're taking a course in, because usually if
NOTE CONF
you just call the email, they won't respond because they
have so many emails that they received a day.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So for extracurriculars.
NOTE CONF
Like all the work and stuff, but it is quite.
Similar to Edinburgh.
NOTE CONF
Um, there's this one cool one that's called CMU explorers,
where they plan group trips to nature sites.
NOTE CONF
I did acapella back in Edinburgh, so I'm doing acapella
here as well.
NOTE CONF
And there's a lot of like free dancing classes that
I can take, which I started doing once I came
NOTE CONF
to CMU.
And obviously the sports clubs are, um, competitive ones, like
NOTE CONF
they call them varsity.
And then there are the non-competitive ones, which are just
NOTE CONF
like intramural and chill.
I personally did not really join the Greek life.
NOTE CONF
But if you want to invest your thing, there's also
that, um, people are really into it.
NOTE CONF
There's like the American colleges are known for their Greek
life and stuff.
NOTE CONF
I say the party scene isn't that great here, though,
because everyone's just distressed with working.
NOTE CONF
Um, but then there's this really cool thing called the
Spring Carnival, which is in the spring semester.
NOTE CONF
So it's like a basically a whole the uni turns
into a carnival site for like a couple of days.
NOTE CONF
So.
Like from scratch with.
NOTE CONF
Electrical stuff and that like, just build a whole.
Things that, um.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
So apart from studying, you can also take trips around
NOTE CONF
the country whenever you're free.
Um, currently it's the fall break, so I'm in the
NOTE CONF
Grand Canyon.
We also went to Vegas, and this is a group
NOTE CONF
photo that we took in the Antelope Canyon a couple
of days ago.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so this is some pros and cons of studying
at CMU.
NOTE CONF
Some pros are that there are really great courses and
lecturers like you really do learn a lot, even though
NOTE CONF
there's a lot of work, I feel like the work
really adds on.
NOTE CONF
It kind of like makes sure that because you're working
constantly, it's always on your mind.
NOTE CONF
So you actually learn a lot of stuff.
You get to meet really, really smart and talented people.
NOTE CONF
Um, all the exchange students are really smart.
All the regular students are really smart.
NOTE CONF
I feel like, um, I think there's one exchange student
from picking you who, like, got second place in the
NOTE CONF
Icpc, which is actually just crazy.
Um.
NOTE CONF
Photo is actually a talk by the Google CEO.
I'd like to see her in person.
NOTE CONF
And, um, there's another pro is like it's a small
exchange cohort.
NOTE CONF
I think it's around like 30 to 40 students.
The exchange program itself is like really small.
NOTE CONF
So you get to be really close to the exchange
students.
NOTE CONF
Um, I'm going on this trip with my exchange friends.
So, um, this is also a photo I took from
NOTE CONF
the Niagara Falls from when I did a weekend trip
to Toronto.
NOTE CONF
Um, cons.
It is a lot of work, so if you're prepared
NOTE CONF
to work, then you should come here.
If you're not, if you want to go on exchange
NOTE CONF
or have, like, fun and party, I feel like CMU
is not the place for you.
NOTE CONF
Um, and it also can be hard to make friends
in classes because the classes are really big and you
NOTE CONF
don't really interact with people outside of class.
You just kind of sit there.
NOTE CONF
And unlike Edinburgh, because Edinburgh has like a set core
structure, you kind of know everyone within informatics.
NOTE CONF
But then for CMU, you have people from different courses,
all taking random courses, and everyone.
NOTE CONF
Is taking exactly the same courses as you.
You have to meet like.
NOTE CONF
For that class.
And one of the last con would be like for
NOTE CONF
work life balance.
Um, I've had like for midterm season, I've had like
NOTE CONF
a couple of days where I only had four hours
of sleep because of just work.
NOTE CONF
There's just a lot of work in general, but if
you can get past that, honestly, I think it's worth
NOTE CONF
it because it's really fun and you really do learn
a lot.
NOTE CONF
Um, bottom right photo is just me with my acapella
group.
NOTE CONF
This is just us in the reception.
Okay, so this would be the end of my presentation.
NOTE CONF
I wanted to say.
Time for.
NOTE CONF
Questions.
Okay, thanks.
NOTE CONF
Thanks.
Aurora.
NOTE CONF
We have time for 1 or 2 questions.
Who?
NOTE CONF
Who has a question about CMU?
Anybody?
NOTE CONF
No question.
Stunned silence.
NOTE CONF
There's one.
How big are the classes?
NOTE CONF
Was the question.
So it depends on whether you're taking undergrad or post-grad
NOTE CONF
classes.
Undergrad classes are pretty big there.
NOTE CONF
They vary from 100 to 200 people.
And people, because it's just a really small room.
NOTE CONF
And then it's.
Is that all right?
NOTE CONF
I mean, the audio broke up in the second half,
but never mind.
NOTE CONF
Is there another question?
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
On the worst day of the week.
Explain more about the what workload.
NOTE CONF
Explain more about the workload per day or per week.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Can you say something?
Okay, so back to my slide.
NOTE CONF
Um, so I'm currently taking, um, four undergrad classes, so
there are no three undergrad classes in one post grad
NOTE CONF
class.
And um, for the undergrad classes, there are homeworks every
NOTE CONF
week.
And they're like usually released like one week ahead.
NOTE CONF
So you get exactly one week to do them.
And they all take a roughly 6 to 8 hours
NOTE CONF
to complete for homework.
So I'd say, um, apart from that you also have
NOTE CONF
to do readings for classes.
So it's a lot of prep to.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
And lectures I guess.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So you have to make sure that you actually caught
NOTE CONF
up to courses.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Uh, I think this would be a good time to
stop, uh, because we have the next talk coming up.
NOTE CONF
So thanks very much, Aurora, for taking the trouble and
enjoy your trip.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
And thank you.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Right.
NOTE CONF
Thanks.
Bye bye.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Uh, this is the next one.
NOTE CONF
So, um.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
So we have a sequence of students who are actually
physically here.
NOTE CONF
So this is going to be a little bit simpler.
Um, let me just get your, uh, talk ready.
NOTE CONF
Um.
Is there any.
NOTE CONF
Um.
No.
NOTE CONF
Um.
I will stand here then.
NOTE CONF
I've got the.
I've got the PDF version.
NOTE CONF
You probably.
Do you want PDF or do you mind or do
NOTE CONF
you want, um, I think actually this PowerPoint, uh, it's
possible this would work with a clicker.
NOTE CONF
Let's see.
Wait a minute.
NOTE CONF
You don't have any notes for you?
No.
NOTE CONF
That's okay.
Okay, so let me just see if this works.
NOTE CONF
I don't think it works.
This other one works.
NOTE CONF
Sorry, it doesn't work.
That one.
NOTE CONF
I don't.
The problem is I don't have the gadget with my
NOTE CONF
in my in mind.
That's fine.
NOTE CONF
I'll click here.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So just press return.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
And there's the microphone.
NOTE CONF
Go ahead.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
So we went to Hong Kong University last year.
Uh hi everyone.
NOTE CONF
I went to HKU last year.
I got back in June.
NOTE CONF
Um, I had an amazing time and I would really
recommend going on exchange overall.
NOTE CONF
Um, this is a photo of the sunset view of
the campus.
NOTE CONF
Um, we had a really amazing, like, campus that was
like, located on a hill.
NOTE CONF
You could see all the buildings around Hong Kong is
known for its many skyscrapers.
NOTE CONF
Um, I think the most high skyscrapers in any city
in the world.
NOTE CONF
Um, so I'll start with a little bit about general
life there, and then I'll talk about student life a
NOTE CONF
bit more.
So, um, yeah, I really wanted to go somewhere a
NOTE CONF
bit different for my exchange.
I'm a dual national, EU and UK citizen, so I
NOTE CONF
can live there the rest of my life, and I
hope to move to a few more places, but I
NOTE CONF
wanted to go somewhere very different.
For me personally, I wasn't that interested in going to
NOTE CONF
America.
I just really wanted to go somewhere very different from
NOTE CONF
wherever I've lived before.
So Hong Kong was great for that.
NOTE CONF
Um, it's a really, really unique place and there were
many.
NOTE CONF
So what's being covered here is one, um, is a
fire dragon dance from the Middleton Festival.
NOTE CONF
Uh, Hong Kong is well known for its hiking.
It's a really dense city, but actually there's a lot
NOTE CONF
of hiking in nature around as well.
Just 20 minutes ferry can get you to really peaceful
NOTE CONF
island getaways.
Um, so it can be a very bustling city, but
NOTE CONF
it's also lots of nature around as well.
And that's one of the parks.
NOTE CONF
And you can see the buildings above it.
Um, so for accommodation, I would say, um, University accommodation
NOTE CONF
is definitely recommended.
I'll see if I can move the.
NOTE CONF
Can you can you find that?
Oh.
NOTE CONF
Um.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
If it's going to be okay.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Um, so, uh, yeah, I would say it's very difficult
to find your own private accommodation in Hong Kong.
NOTE CONF
Um, there is university accommodation, but it is very limited.
So you have to apply very early.
NOTE CONF
And the the application opens at 3 a.m. UK time.
So, um, but what I've been told is that you
NOTE CONF
absolutely have to do it when it opens.
I did get university accommodation.
NOTE CONF
I was very grateful for that.
Some people would prefer not to go into university accommodation
NOTE CONF
because they do have quite strict rules, especially if you're
used to the UK.
NOTE CONF
We have, um, student accommodation.
There's no like people monitoring who goes in or out
NOTE CONF
or anything like this.
In Hong Kong it's much more strict about I had
NOTE CONF
to scan my card twice to get into the building.
Um, there were no visitors allowed.
NOTE CONF
After 11 p.m. I was allowed, I think, up to
two guests at once in my college.
NOTE CONF
And, um, it's supposed to be like, uh, single gender
floors.
NOTE CONF
And after 11 p.m., you're not supposed to be on
the other floor.
NOTE CONF
It kind of depends how strict your floor is.
But when I heard that the first time, that turned
NOTE CONF
me off a bit, but, um, I still had a
fine time on my ear abroad is it's.
NOTE CONF
The accommodation is cheap, so that was the benefit of
it.
NOTE CONF
Private accommodation will be much more expensive and harder to
find, and possibly quite complicated for you to arrange a
NOTE CONF
contract.
Um, in Cantonese or something.
NOTE CONF
Um, they have a different selection of, uh, more traditional
halls, which are mostly Cantonese speaking people or more international
NOTE CONF
halls.
I heard it was a bit harder to make friends
NOTE CONF
if you don't speak Cantonese to go in a more
traditional hall, so I chose to go into a more
NOTE CONF
international one.
It was still about 5050, so I still made local
NOTE CONF
friends in my hall, and they're all quite a lot
more like activity based.
NOTE CONF
So you have your own college or hall and you
do activities with your floor a bit.
NOTE CONF
And if you're a normal student, you actually have to
reapply to get into the same hall the next year
NOTE CONF
based on how much activities you did.
So that can be fun.
NOTE CONF
If you want to get to know people in your
whole life.
NOTE CONF
As an extension, you don't have to participate if you
don't want to.
NOTE CONF
And they're also all pretty much majority double rooms.
So I did have a roommate and that is probably
NOTE CONF
the case if you go in university accommodation.
Um, I also shared a kitchen with 22 people, but
NOTE CONF
this generally wasn't really a problem because we all ate
out so much of the time.
NOTE CONF
Um, so actually, I didn't really care if food was
a lot cheaper to buy out, and it was not
NOTE CONF
that cost effective for me to, um, cook my own
food.
NOTE CONF
really.
So I got to eat on campus a lot.
NOTE CONF
I went out to lots of different restaurants, tried lots
of great food.
NOTE CONF
I love that part.
I had to learn how to cook again more often
NOTE CONF
myself when I got back.
Um, yeah, less than a Tesco meal deal to get
NOTE CONF
like a nice hot meal on campus.
So amazing.
NOTE CONF
And I loved it.
So easy to just go and meet up with friends.
NOTE CONF
Food.
It's not a big deal.
NOTE CONF
You just say, oh, let's go get some dinner later.
Like it's not a big deal.
NOTE CONF
Um, the Metro is amazing.
Super convenient and cheap.
NOTE CONF
I've heard from one of my friends now who is
in America that is super hard to get around LA.
NOTE CONF
So I loved how it was super easy to get
around Hong Kong.
NOTE CONF
You get 50% discount with your student card.
Yeah, it's so easy to get around.
NOTE CONF
Um, there, the university has its own metro stop, and
it's it was one stop away from where I lived,
NOTE CONF
and it's really convenient to get to everywhere.
Um, it is a seasonal climate still, but right now
NOTE CONF
it's very hot.
Um, I personally enjoyed that.
NOTE CONF
The winter wasn't that cold.
I'm having to get used to Scottish winter again, but,
NOTE CONF
um, when I arrived, it was it was very hot
and sweaty, so I had to get used to that.
NOTE CONF
And, um, I also had three major weather events and
my first month of being there, including in the first
NOTE CONF
week, the most severe typhoon the Hong Kong has ever
had in five years.
NOTE CONF
But they you just have to download an app.
You get warnings, they tell you to stay on site.
NOTE CONF
It's generally fine as long as you like.
Take care of yourself and don't go outside when they
NOTE CONF
tell you not to.
Um, it is uh, official languages are Cantonese and English,
NOTE CONF
and Mandarin is widely spoken as well.
Um, a fair amount of people, uh, won't speak English,
NOTE CONF
but you'll totally be able to get by without any
Chinese knowledge or Cantonese.
NOTE CONF
Um, but I took two university Cantonese courses as part
of my credits, and I think that was really beneficial
NOTE CONF
for me to actually be able to understand a bit
more of what was going on around me, order my
NOTE CONF
own food and drinks, and yeah, I just really like,
loved being a bit more part of it.
NOTE CONF
If I understood a bit more of what's going on
around me is very difficult language to learn, but I
NOTE CONF
think it's well worth trying.
Um, yeah, it's a bit different from the UK and
NOTE CONF
this might be a bit hard at first.
Um, some things are hard.
NOTE CONF
Some things I enjoyed.
Um, you have to be willing to embrace the fact
NOTE CONF
that it will be quite different from you, and it
will push you a bit out of your comfort zone,
NOTE CONF
especially at first.
But I think it's made me a lot more confident.
NOTE CONF
And yeah, I really enjoyed getting to experience that.
Um, yeah, it's a big city.
NOTE CONF
There's so much to do, but it doesn't feel unmanageable.
It's really easy to get around.
NOTE CONF
It feels very safe.
Um, and it has good nightlife.
NOTE CONF
Um, if you're interested in what Hong Kong is like,
I would definitely recommend searching up YouTube videos, vlogs, food
NOTE CONF
shopping, culture, history, things like that.
I think this is also a good point to mention
NOTE CONF
that, um, the political situation in Hong Kong is is
quite complicated.
NOTE CONF
Um, personally, I didn't feel that that affected me negatively
in any way on my exchange.
NOTE CONF
But you will notice that, um, that that is quite
tense in Hong Kong.
NOTE CONF
Um, and I would definitely recommend researching that before you
go.
NOTE CONF
Um, there's been some like quite strong laws put in
place recently, and that is affecting what Hong Kong people
NOTE CONF
say.
And if you try and talk to them about it,
NOTE CONF
they will like be a bit like about it.
So definitely like research it.
NOTE CONF
I wouldn't say it's a reason not to go, but
it does make me consider.
NOTE CONF
I learned that actually everyone who graduates from Edinburgh can
get a visa to look for a job in Hong
NOTE CONF
Kong for two years.
You don't have to already have a company sponsoring you,
NOTE CONF
which is very cool, but the political situation does make
me reconsider if I would want to go and move
NOTE CONF
there and work there, um, indefinitely, as opposed to doing
an exchange.
NOTE CONF
Um.
Student life.
NOTE CONF
So this is us in the the Taiwan study area.
So there's a library and a more casual study area.
NOTE CONF
Um, the metro station, the Hong Kong famous wall.
That's one of my classes where I could see the
NOTE CONF
sea.
Um, I would say that it's pretty intense, maybe a
NOTE CONF
bit more intense than Edinburgh, but probably not as intense
as CMU.
NOTE CONF
Um, I found because we, uh, courses are a bit
smaller, but you have to take still the equivalent number
NOTE CONF
of credits.
So I had to take five courses each semester.
NOTE CONF
Uh, and I had more frequent assignments from five courses
at a time.
NOTE CONF
So that did feel like quite a lot of work.
Um, I had a lot of, like, overlapping assignments that
NOTE CONF
were due like this course, this course, next two weeks,
next weeks, like, all at once.
NOTE CONF
Um, so that did feel a bit more intense.
And here where it's more like you have three coursework
NOTE CONF
in a semester and they, like, are more sequential.
Um, I really like the campus nature.
NOTE CONF
Edinburghs more city campus.
Um, but this is more compact altogether.
NOTE CONF
Lots of cafes, lots placed on campus.
Um, and I just went to campus, walked around.
NOTE CONF
It has like, it's very warm and lots of plants
and tropical.
NOTE CONF
Feels a bit more tropical.
Um, And yeah, for classes as well.
NOTE CONF
HC mandates that you take at least 50% from your
faculty.
NOTE CONF
So for a computer science, that's the faculty of engineering.
And that includes all, uh, engineering faculty classes.
NOTE CONF
So Edinburgh does mandate that you take a bit more
computer science than that.
NOTE CONF
Um, but it's most computer science people at HKU will
not take five CS courses each semester because that is
NOTE CONF
far too much workload.
Normal students are supposed to take 1 to 2 Common
NOTE CONF
Core courses each year, which is like courses that anyone
from any subject can take.
NOTE CONF
Um, and they generally have more group projects and are
a bit less intense than the higher level CS courses.
NOTE CONF
So I did one of those as well.
Um, which was quite interesting, went a bit deeper in
NOTE CONF
the metaverse and still talked about AI and other things.
So I found that quite fun.
NOTE CONF
Um, most of the CSE courses I was on had
a 50% exam, so I did have four exams in
NOTE CONF
the first semester and three in the second, which was
a bit more than I'm used to here.
NOTE CONF
And the sign up for courses also happens at 3
a.m. UK time.
NOTE CONF
I would recommend also waking up for that, because some
of the popular courses are tough to get, and your
NOTE CONF
best chance is to like.
You can have them already in your basket before the
NOTE CONF
opens, and if you put that in as soon as
it opens, that's your best chance to get the course
NOTE CONF
you want.
But the normal students are still prioritised above the exchange
NOTE CONF
students, so you may end up not getting some of
the ones you want, but I still ended up with
NOTE CONF
pretty good choices, so that was fine for me, I
think.
NOTE CONF
Maybe not as intense as some of the other places
I heard of.
NOTE CONF
Um, yeah.
I would also say there's a lot of international students
NOTE CONF
at HKU.
It's well known for being very international.
NOTE CONF
It can be a bit harder to make friends with
local students if you don't speak any Cantonese.
NOTE CONF
But in general, there's lots of international students.
There's a huge amount of exchange students.
NOTE CONF
Um, there were, I think 15 exchange students from Edinburgh
alone, um, at HQ from different subjects.
NOTE CONF
Um, and I made friends with some of them.
I think we try not to stick together too much
NOTE CONF
because you don't leave at home or just make friends
with only Adam or people, but, um, it's very fun.
NOTE CONF
Like a huge, like, group people to hang out with,
um, costs.
NOTE CONF
So one thing I haven't mentioned here, actually, is that
I am a, um.
NOTE CONF
It depends what kind of fee paying student you are,
but I'm a rest of UK like English fee paying
NOTE CONF
student, and my, um, fees were actually halved for the
exchange.
NOTE CONF
So instead of paying 9000 something, I only paid 4000
something, which also adds into how much.
NOTE CONF
And I think you can get slightly more maintenance loan
if you're on an exchange.
NOTE CONF
Um, the flights were obviously the one like big one
off cost at the start.
NOTE CONF
Um, that is quite expensive.
If you you're going to have to try and wait
NOTE CONF
until after you get your visa to book your flights.
But as long as you can do it will save
NOTE CONF
you money.
Accommodation I found to be much cheaper than I normally
NOTE CONF
pay in Edinburgh, so I paid about £270 a month.
Um, that's about half as much as I pay in
NOTE CONF
Edinburgh.
And I did have to share a room, but that
NOTE CONF
meant I could go out to eat a lot and
do a lot of other things, and I didn't have
NOTE CONF
to worry about it that much.
I heard some things from American exchange students that they
NOTE CONF
had to save up a lot of money before they
went, and I generally didn't find that to be as
NOTE CONF
much an issue.
Going to Hong Kong, except for like Hong Kong is
NOTE CONF
known to be a very expensive city, but that's mostly
on, um, living costs and rent.
NOTE CONF
And actually other costs are not so bad, especially food
and transport and things like that.
NOTE CONF
Um, student visa cost me £100.
I had to post documents to Hong Kong, but it
NOTE CONF
went fine.
Um, and the insurance you can get from the university,
NOTE CONF
you're not mandated to take out any other insurance.
Um, if you want, you can get extra.
NOTE CONF
And I estimate that I spent around that much on
food and travel.
NOTE CONF
Um, I would say before I went on exchange or
things I was most worried about were leaving Edinburgh for
NOTE CONF
a year.
Um, I'm not yet feeling super settled.
NOTE CONF
At the time I was thinking of applying to go
somewhere.
NOTE CONF
I'd have to leave again in a year and then
only be back in Edinburgh for one more year.
NOTE CONF
Um, and I would say this generally has been fine.
I stayed friends with all my friends from Edinburgh before,
NOTE CONF
uh, I had an amazing time in Hong Kong.
I met lots of friends there from lots of different
NOTE CONF
places.
Somehow I've got more friends in Edinburgh because my friends
NOTE CONF
here branched out.
So, um, I have more friends on my course from
NOTE CONF
people they met.
I have I did an internship in Edinburgh over the
NOTE CONF
summer, met friends and work, and I, two of the
people from uh, I made friends in Hong Kong, also
NOTE CONF
came back to Edinburgh.
So that's really nice.
NOTE CONF
Um, and my other worry was that fourth year would
be more intense, which I think is true so far
NOTE CONF
it's manageable.
I am a bit worried about my coursework that's worth
NOTE CONF
50% of a 20 credit course due tomorrow, because that
counts for 8.3% of my entire university grade.
NOTE CONF
Um, but I had a lot of fun in Hong
Kong, and I knew that this year would be time
NOTE CONF
to work, and I'm okay with that.
Um, yeah, I have a few more pictures.
NOTE CONF
Sorry.
It's time.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Um, I have, yeah.
NOTE CONF
Questions now.
So the, uh, I'll put all of these presentations on,
NOTE CONF
um, you know, I'll link them all so you can
look at the pictures later, if you like.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Uh.
Any questions?
NOTE CONF
You can also email me anything.
Anybody?
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Oh, there's one great question.
NOTE CONF
Um.
My grades.
NOTE CONF
I wouldn't say they were, like, super high.
I think I had pretty good grades overall.
NOTE CONF
Um, I wrote a good essay as well.
I scored well in that component, and I had pretty
NOTE CONF
high.
I had one of my courses was not so good,
NOTE CONF
but my top three courses were quite good, so that
helped me.
NOTE CONF
But I would definitely say apply even if you don't
have the best grades, because, um, it's based on more
NOTE CONF
than just your grades and don't rule yourself out too
early?
NOTE CONF
Yep.
Did you support things like.
NOTE CONF
Academic intentions.
And cool off and were like, I want to go
NOTE CONF
there as a.
Place to live?
NOTE CONF
Um, yeah.
So for the personal statement, they specifically ask you to
NOTE CONF
answer, sort of three bullet points.
Um, one is about, uh, how you would be a
NOTE CONF
good ambassador of Edinburgh.
One is about why you want to go for academic
NOTE CONF
reasons, and one is about why you want to go
for less academic reasons.
NOTE CONF
Um, I would say the better you answer those three
bullet points, the higher chance you have.
NOTE CONF
And yeah, especially don't rule self out grades wise, because
if you write a really good essay, that's 50% of
NOTE CONF
your score.
And personally, the essays are peer reviewed by other students.
NOTE CONF
I read one of them was really way better than
the rest.
NOTE CONF
So you're automatically getting a bit a better score and
you can do really well even if you have less
NOTE CONF
grades.
If you have really good reasons for why you want
NOTE CONF
to go and you explain that.
I write about, uh, things I take part in, in
NOTE CONF
Edinburgh, like clubs and societies.
You can right by that as well.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
There's, there's one but it has to be quick, okay.
NOTE CONF
Because we're out of time.
Yep.
NOTE CONF
Um, your life to itself.
Uh, I applied through Edinburgh Uni, so I applied the
NOTE CONF
university wide route, not the computer science route, which is
basically the same thing, but you have different universities you
NOTE CONF
can go to.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Thanks.
Yeah, thanks.
NOTE CONF
Got to move on.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Thanks very much.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Um.
You see, so our next, uh, our next talk is
NOTE CONF
Selena and I have to get this presentation up.
Um, Selena from, um, who went to the University of
NOTE CONF
Pennsylvania last year.
Let me just find the.
NOTE CONF
Right.
I just need to.
NOTE CONF
I need to find the, um.
Can you just say that you find your presentation?
NOTE CONF
Um, sorry.
This is being very sluggish.
NOTE CONF
Um.
So that's you okay?
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Uh.
NOTE CONF
Go ahead.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Hi.
My name is Selena.
NOTE CONF
I went to the University of Pennsylvania last year.
Um, so my presentation is quite short, so I'm just
NOTE CONF
going to go over some of the key points, um,
like my motivations for going and some of the things
NOTE CONF
I wish I knew before going.
Um, so, yeah.
NOTE CONF
Why the University of Pennsylvania?
So, yeah.
NOTE CONF
So my main reason for going was that academic reasons.
So University of Pennsylvania has a wide range of courses
NOTE CONF
you can choose from.
Um, one of the things that was particularly, um, appealing
NOTE CONF
to me was that the the idea that you could
take courses at a higher level.
NOTE CONF
So it was quite flexible to choose courses that were
postgraduate or upper undergraduate.
NOTE CONF
The requirements are quite flexible as well.
Um, so you can email the professor explaining, say that
NOTE CONF
you have these requirements from the University of Edinburgh and
how they translate.
NOTE CONF
And generally it's fine.
There are a couple of courses which have more stricter
NOTE CONF
requirements, but that's on a case by case basis and
those are generally more specialised, specialised.
NOTE CONF
Um, so generally um it's expected that you take four
courses per semester.
NOTE CONF
So this is equivalent to fourth course units.
You have a maximum of 5.5.
NOTE CONF
But it's generally not recommended to take 5.5 units worth
of courses, as these courses are a lot more intense
NOTE CONF
than the ones from this university.
Um, so the courses are on the first come, first
NOTE CONF
serve basis.
So before you arrive at the University of Pennsylvania, you
NOTE CONF
need to manually apply yourself for these courses through their
application portal called Penn.
NOTE CONF
Um, what?
One thing I wish I knew before going is that,
NOTE CONF
um, we do not get access to advanced registration before
for the first semester, so most of the other students
NOTE CONF
for the first semester would have already registered.
So it's a lot more, um, intensive, you know, sign
NOTE CONF
on for your the courses you're interested in for the
first semester.
NOTE CONF
But it generally worked out fine because you have two
weeks at the start of the semester to change courses.
NOTE CONF
Um, it's there add drop or swap period.
Um, one other good thing about University of Pennsylvania is
NOTE CONF
that it really enables you to, um, study courses outside
of the scope of computer science.
NOTE CONF
So I know a lot of people in the past
have studied, um, taking courses from the business school.
NOTE CONF
So Wharton School of Business, which is quite famous, I
personally went and took a couple of computational biology courses,
NOTE CONF
um, which I had an interest in at the time.
So one of the reasons I highly recommend going on
NOTE CONF
a stage in the University of Pennsylvania is it really
provides you with a different perspectives perspective on learning.
NOTE CONF
So I found that the courses were extremely well taught
and emphasised engagement from the students.
NOTE CONF
So there were a lot more interactive office hours and
recitations in order to ensure that you actually know the
NOTE CONF
content.
The assignments were also a lot more intensive, so I
NOTE CONF
think I had either weekly or bi weekly assignments.
So often you have multiple up to 3 to 4
NOTE CONF
deadlines in a week.
You also have midterms.
NOTE CONF
And these assignments are normally built up built on each
other.
NOTE CONF
So at the end you get something that is, um,
very applicable and you can put on your CV.
NOTE CONF
Um, one thing to note is that UPenn puts a
lot of emphasis on group assignments.
NOTE CONF
So if you really don't like working in a group,
it might not be something for you.
NOTE CONF
Um, yeah.
So besides academic reasons, um, I also had some personal
NOTE CONF
reasons for travelling from going on exchange.
So these involved getting to new to know a new
NOTE CONF
culture, um, travel and the social aspect of it.
So yeah, travel.
NOTE CONF
So, um, the UPenn is located in Philadelphia, which is
one of the largest cities.
NOTE CONF
Um, it has a really interesting culture.
It's also about two hours away from New York, which
NOTE CONF
I highly recommend visiting, and Washington, DC, which I regret
not visiting.
NOTE CONF
Um, so yeah, so obviously you're close to New York,
so that gives you access to a lot of, um,
NOTE CONF
museums.
Um, you have access to Broadway as well.
NOTE CONF
Um, so if you like musicals, that's obviously a good
place to visit.
NOTE CONF
Um, yeah.
Um, on the social side of things in the university
NOTE CONF
itself.
So Penn organises a lot of events.
NOTE CONF
So I think within the first week the um new
student society, um organisation, um, organise a bunch of events
NOTE CONF
for exchange students, new students and transfer students to get
to know each other.
NOTE CONF
So these involve like dinners, um, couple of talks.
Um, they're really well organised and I definitely recommend going
NOTE CONF
to get to know other people who are there for
similar purpose to you.
NOTE CONF
Um, they also organise, um, a couple of careers events,
um, which I also highly recommend going.
NOTE CONF
Um, it's a very career driven university, so they are
happy to help with your CV or to discuss potential
NOTE CONF
like, um, directions.
You can take your career.
NOTE CONF
Um, UPenn also features a wide range of different societies,
um, very similar to Edinburgh.
NOTE CONF
Um, so depending on what your interests are, there are
a couple of engineering societies, um, similar to um, like
NOTE CONF
Endeavour and Formula Student.
Um, they also have lots of just social societies.
NOTE CONF
So when I got involved in was the Climbing Society,
which ran events throughout the entire year.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
So just a couple of points of logistics.
NOTE CONF
Um, yeah.
So accommodation, you it's mandatory for you to get accommodation
NOTE CONF
with the university itself.
Um, it is actually quite expensive.
NOTE CONF
Um, so I think I paid around 12 K for
mine.
NOTE CONF
The higher limit is around 15 K.
Um, yeah.
NOTE CONF
Generally these are in what they call apartment style.
So it's, um, you would generally be sharing a room
NOTE CONF
with someone else and you have access to a kitchen
and a shared bathroom.
NOTE CONF
Um, so most of these accommodations are quite old and
run down, especially the high rises.
NOTE CONF
Um, there are around six people in a room in
a high rise, and, um, the facilities are a bit
NOTE CONF
like old.
Um.
NOTE CONF
So if you are applying, I recommend doing a research
on which accommodation you want to apply for, because when
NOTE CONF
applications open, you can generally rank them in terms of
what you want.
NOTE CONF
You might not get it, but at least it's worth
a shot.
NOTE CONF
Um, so dining plan is also, um, necessary to apply
for a dining plan.
NOTE CONF
There is no option to skip out on this, so
dining plans start at about two $2,000.
NOTE CONF
Um, I generally recommend going for the least expensive one
and get dining dollars if you can, rather than swipes.
NOTE CONF
The food at the dining halls is not good like
at all.
NOTE CONF
It's one of the most notorious points about UPenn.
Actually.
NOTE CONF
Everyone talks about it.
It's how bad the food is.
NOTE CONF
Um, yeah, health insurance was around 4000 for my year.
So yeah, yeah.
NOTE CONF
Be warned that UPenn is quite an expensive university to
go for on exchange.
NOTE CONF
Um, yeah.
So visa for me was about £300.
NOTE CONF
And one thing to note about applying for visas for
UPenn is that to apply for a visa for American
NOTE CONF
University unique and I-20, you need to apply for it
yourself through the University of Pennsylvania.
NOTE CONF
They have a portal you have to manually fill in
the form.
NOTE CONF
Some universities will send this out to you, but UPenn
doesn't, so this can take up to three weeks.
NOTE CONF
Um, if they are extremely busy.
So please, um, do that early as soon as you
NOTE CONF
can.
Um, the other note is for vaccinations.
NOTE CONF
So UPenn has immunisation immune sorry.
Immunisation requirements.
NOTE CONF
Um, what they don't tell you is that you can
get these, um, vaccines when you arrive, um, as part
NOTE CONF
of your a really expensive, um, health insurance.
So, um, yeah.
NOTE CONF
Don't get them in the UK.
Um, yeah.
NOTE CONF
So payments and bank account.
The other other the other thing I want you to
NOTE CONF
quickly mention is, um, so all your fees need to
be paid through wire transfer, which is a bit different
NOTE CONF
from how it works in the UK.
Um, I recommend setting up a bank account as soon
NOTE CONF
as you can, um, when you get to Pennsylvania.
So the university has an agreement with PNC, so it's
NOTE CONF
quite easy for students to set up their bank accounts.
You just need to bring an ID, but the first
NOTE CONF
payment that you need to pay is quite early on.
I think it might even be before the start of
NOTE CONF
the semester.
And if you don't have an international, um, a US
NOTE CONF
bank account, you might have to pay, at least for
my year.
NOTE CONF
You had to pay, um, an additional third party fee
that because of the third party, um, transfer.
NOTE CONF
So that can be up to 10%.
So it's quite expensive.
NOTE CONF
Um, another thing that they don't tell you is that
there are there's a payment.
NOTE CONF
Well, no, they do tell you that there's a payment
plan, but they don't tell you that you can afford
NOTE CONF
to miss one transaction.
Um, you have a leniency of one so that if
NOTE CONF
you accidentally forget to pay one of the, um, one
of the deadlines, um, as long as you pay it
NOTE CONF
and don't miss another one, um, you're generally fine.
Um, so.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, that brings us to the end of my slides.
Um, it's a bit short.
NOTE CONF
That's great.
You've got, uh, only a few minutes.
NOTE CONF
Oh, okay.
So any questions?
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Uh, can you work in the summer after your exchange
NOTE CONF
year on the visa?
You have to get.
NOTE CONF
Um.
For me.
NOTE CONF
No, the visa literally ends as your semester ends.
I've.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Just kick.
NOTE CONF
You out.
Basically.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
I'm sure that if you have a reason to stay,
NOTE CONF
you can ask around, um, and see if you can
extend the visa or something, but I, I didn't obviously
NOTE CONF
I didn't do it, so I don't I wouldn't know.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
But on that topic, I think different American universities have
different arrangements with visas for sort of summer internships and
NOTE CONF
things like that.
Maybe, maybe you'll be able to say something when we
NOTE CONF
come to you, but, uh, yeah.
Any other questions?
NOTE CONF
Is the teaching style or.
Theoretical skills based, math based, or is it more practical
NOTE CONF
elements?
Um, I feel like it's a good mix of well,
NOTE CONF
obviously it depends on the course you're taking, but I
feel like it's very mix of theoretical and practical with
NOTE CONF
a heavy emphasis on practical.
Like all your assignments, um, are very much things that
NOTE CONF
you might end up doing in real life, in my
opinion.
NOTE CONF
Like one of the assignments I did was to implement
a web search engine, which is something that I don't
NOTE CONF
think Edinburgh does, and it's something that really taught me
a lot.
NOTE CONF
And I got to use some of the skills during
my internship over the summer.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Um, anybody else?
NOTE CONF
Last question.
I have a question.
NOTE CONF
Six people in a room.
Do you mean six people in an apartment?
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Sorry.
NOTE CONF
Um, it depends on the type of accommodation you have.
So in a bigger apartment, it can be six people
NOTE CONF
in the apartment with two people in a room.
Um, sorry, I should have clarified.
NOTE CONF
The.
Youth hostel sort of bunk bed sort of arrangement.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
No.
NOTE CONF
That's great.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Thanks very much.
Yeah, thanks.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So next talk, uh, is on ETH Zurich.
NOTE CONF
And let me just get the slides up.
Uh, and, Ross, um, let me find this.
NOTE CONF
Come on.
You have any preference?
NOTE CONF
Okay, sure.
I'm missing something.
NOTE CONF
Oh, no, I don't have yours.
I don't have your slides.
NOTE CONF
Uh, it's just called.
Oh, sorry.
NOTE CONF
There it is.
Yeah, sorry.
NOTE CONF
I do have them.
Oh, there we go.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
And the microphone is here.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
So just.
Uh.
NOTE CONF
So.
Hi.
NOTE CONF
My name is, um.
Uh, I was one of the two students to exchange
NOTE CONF
to eat in Zurich last year.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
And I'm Ross.
I was also there.
NOTE CONF
I studied CSS and maths, so I did a joint
degree as well.
NOTE CONF
So for the most part, these slides have a lot
of information that we're not necessarily going to explain right
NOTE CONF
now.
Therefore your benefit when you look at them on the
NOTE CONF
website.
Um, because there's no point getting into details here.
NOTE CONF
Um, so Zurich, it's the largest city in Switzerland with
incredible public transport links both within Switzerland and around it.
NOTE CONF
European trains are great guys.
Um, it's in a German part of Switzerland, but you
NOTE CONF
do not need to know German to get by.
I did just fine.
NOTE CONF
And you slowly pick up Swiss German anyways.
It has a very high cost of living, as I'm
NOTE CONF
sure most people are aware, but the quality of life
is relatively high simultaneously, and pretty much every big company
NOTE CONF
you can think of has an office of some kind
there.
NOTE CONF
So especially if you're a European and you wouldn't need
a work permit.
NOTE CONF
Internships are very much on the table.
With with the move to Switzerland, housing is provided by
NOTE CONF
the university.
It's on a first come, first serve basis.
NOTE CONF
But I think both of us applied like two hours
after the form came out and we were guaranteed accommodation
NOTE CONF
at that point.
Um, it was cheap.
NOTE CONF
It was about the same price as my accommodation in
Edinburgh.
NOTE CONF
And that's because the Swiss government highly subsidises this accommodation
for exchange students.
NOTE CONF
So please make sure if you get into it, you
fill out this form the second it comes out.
NOTE CONF
Um for immigration If you're European or from the UK,
you do not need any form of visa or anything
NOTE CONF
to go to Zurich.
If you are international, it was a fairly simple process
NOTE CONF
in the grand scheme of things.
You just fill out a form, send it to them
NOTE CONF
and I got my visa and like 5 to 6
weeks here.
NOTE CONF
If you get an accommodation that's in the city of
Zurich.
NOTE CONF
We were lucky we didn't.
But if you do get one in the city, you
NOTE CONF
have to have proof that you have 21,000 in your
bank account before you actually can go.
NOTE CONF
So we got very lucky that we weren't in the
city of Zurich, but you do actually have to pay
NOTE CONF
for the long commute and everything, but yeah.
Um, this is again important disclaimer.
NOTE CONF
Switzerland is expensive.
They are not kidding about that.
NOTE CONF
Personally, I wasn't someone who used to cook a lot
while I lived in Edinburgh for the first two years.
NOTE CONF
I got very good at cooking over the year because
you kind of just have to.
NOTE CONF
I don't think we had any takeaway unless it was
for celebrations of some form or if someone else was
NOTE CONF
paying for it, and the university does have really good
mentors or cafeterias that do pretty affordable food with a
NOTE CONF
variety of options.
This is one of 11 options just at the central
NOTE CONF
campus, and if you commute between the two campuses, there
are like 25 to 30 restaurants you can get food
NOTE CONF
at.
And there's vegetarian, vegan, everything.
NOTE CONF
Um, so university itself is one of the Swiss federal
institutes alongside EPFL, which you'll hear about soon.
NOTE CONF
One of the biggest research units in the in Europe
and the world consistently ranked in the top five, I
NOTE CONF
think their third this year for CSE, but don't quote
me on that.
NOTE CONF
And some of the famous alumni include names that you're
probably familiar with, especially if you do maths.
NOTE CONF
There's a lot more if I included mathematicians.
Um, so for the most part, the undergrad is taught
NOTE CONF
in German, so you're locked into essentially taking courses in
the third year of the bachelors.
NOTE CONF
So it's all of these which are kind of similar
to some of the courses you'd expect to take in
NOTE CONF
Edinburgh in third year, but in some cases more rigorous
or require some background reading before you go there.
NOTE CONF
Personally, I spent the summer before I moved on.
Picking up on the background that I knew I didn't
NOTE CONF
have from certain, especially from the mathematical aspects of stuff.
But these aren't the only courses you can take.
NOTE CONF
This slide, while it might not be readable at the
back, was just me trying to show you, regardless of
NOTE CONF
what field of CSS you are interested in, there's at
least five courses for you to take, and I pretty
NOTE CONF
much every course I took was on the master's list.
So as long as you're willing to take willing to
NOTE CONF
do some extra work in the first couple of weeks
of the semester, you'll be more than fine to take
NOTE CONF
masters courses.
And I did better on the master's courses than I
NOTE CONF
did.
The undergrad courses taste like.
NOTE CONF
That can mean whatever you need.
Um, so the credit requirements, you need to do a
NOTE CONF
maximum of 30 credits and a minimum of 20.
As far as I'm aware, that hasn't changed.
NOTE CONF
And these are requirements from both ETH and Edinburgh.
And the requirements are that you have to make sure
NOTE CONF
at least two thirds of these credits are from one
of the degrees listed here.
NOTE CONF
Um, electrical engineering there is very interdisciplinary, and for the
most part it was a computer science degree, just on
NOTE CONF
a low level computer architecture, computer systems perspective.
And you are locked out of.
NOTE CONF
I did the calculations on this yesterday in nine courses
in the entire CSE department, which is a very low
NOTE CONF
amount compared to some of the other universities you could
exchange to.
NOTE CONF
There is no priority selection.
We got access to the form at the same time
NOTE CONF
as everyone else did.
It is first come, first serve in the truest sense.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, I'll talk about joint degrees as well on this
slide.
NOTE CONF
I guess if you're just in computer science, it's fine.
As we've just said, most everything is in English, but
NOTE CONF
the math side of things for me was quite hard.
I had to do pre-reading and things, and the courses
NOTE CONF
I actually took were what did I take?
Uh, algebra and complex analysis.
NOTE CONF
But but yeah, for both I had to do pre-reading.
So I guess you'd have to look into the actual
NOTE CONF
courses you're going to take for that.
Really.
NOTE CONF
And just to quickly add on to that, these are
my slides from last year.
NOTE CONF
I neither had time last year nor this year to
update it.
NOTE CONF
I have looked into CSS and physics now.
If you do that, you are fine.
NOTE CONF
But the same caveat will apply that you're going to
have to do some masters courses, which is harder when
NOTE CONF
you're in maths or physics compared to just going into
a CSS Masters course.
NOTE CONF
Um, other important information 14 week long semesters compared to
what you're used to here.
NOTE CONF
Your exams for fall semester are in January.
Your exams for second semester are in August.
NOTE CONF
This means that you have two months to study for
your exams, but your summer still requires you to study.
NOTE CONF
Personally, I was working over the summer and I flew
back in August for the one exam I had that
NOTE CONF
Ross also did.
Um, but it's fine for the most part, at least
NOTE CONF
from my experience.
Um, and oral examinations are common for especially for the
NOTE CONF
theoretical and maths courses.
It's not necessary.
NOTE CONF
You'll have written exams and a lot of the masters
courses will do like 60 to 70% projects.
NOTE CONF
I guess all.
Exams usually get better grades to be honest than written
NOTE CONF
exams.
So it's nothing to be scared of.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Um, one last thing.
NOTE CONF
Grading system is different.
You're graded on a six point scale.
NOTE CONF
Um, a four is a pass, a six is excellent.
A six is achievable without getting 100 on a course.
NOTE CONF
Something very important I am pretty sure I have like
a 5.75 on a course by only like getting like
NOTE CONF
a 60% in the final, because that's just how the
course was curved.
NOTE CONF
So your grades on the exams are curved up to
match this grade system.
NOTE CONF
So the 4 to 6, while it seems like only
two grade points are passing, it is actually a much
NOTE CONF
larger percentage of your actual exam.
And I think this is one of the last things
NOTE CONF
I talked about.
So student associations work very similarly.
NOTE CONF
Was it is equivalent to USA, the umbrella student union
that has every society in it.
NOTE CONF
And this would be the closest thing to this would
be comes up here.
NOTE CONF
Uh, they run a lot of events.
I think we at least personally I travelled a lot
NOTE CONF
and we went to Lausanne a couple of times just
based off of them paying for events for us to
NOTE CONF
travel.
I got a flight to Turin out of just the
NOTE CONF
student societies.
So please do join.
NOTE CONF
They have like sub societies with essentially sigs basically for
everything you can think of similar to Edinburgh.
NOTE CONF
So do engage with them.
There's also the Erasmus Student network that does events for
NOTE CONF
internationals and exchange students.
Um, and yeah, that's it.
NOTE CONF
We wanted to leave some time for questions, so I
rushed through things.
NOTE CONF
Otherwise.
Feel free to reach out to me and if I
NOTE CONF
can't answer your question, I will also just cross in
the emails and we can figure it out.
NOTE CONF
Thank you.
Thanks.
NOTE CONF
Uh.
Questions?
NOTE CONF
Anybody?
Yes.
NOTE CONF
What were your grades like?
Um.
NOTE CONF
Qualifying for or or for.
The first year?
NOTE CONF
Okay, so these won't be representative of grades for this
year or last year.
NOTE CONF
We went through first year in Covid, but I had
high 90s on most courses.
NOTE CONF
I'm sure Don can probably comment on what it's like
with the non-COVID stuff.
NOTE CONF
I can say that youth is, uh, one of our
most competitive, uh, destinations.
NOTE CONF
Um, but we have three places now.
I mean, last year we had two.
NOTE CONF
Now we have three.
Um, so I should say, uh.
NOTE CONF
Please apply.
I mean, uh, most people are successful.
NOTE CONF
Okay?
You may not get the place that at the at
NOTE CONF
your top choice, but it's quite likely you get an
offer for something that that will turn.
NOTE CONF
Out to be good.
Also, I completely forgot to add one thing that was
NOTE CONF
very important because I hadn't actually done research at the
point these slides were made last year.
NOTE CONF
But in my second semester I did a 16 week
long research project along with like, I was supervised by
NOTE CONF
two professors and a PhD student, and it, as a
research focussed university, allows you to do this very easily.
NOTE CONF
There's an entirely separate process for exchange students to undertake
research over the semester.
NOTE CONF
Um, you get a grade for it, you get mentorship,
and it's also an incredible experience.
NOTE CONF
If you're interested in academia or CSE, research in, again,
any field possible within the umbrella of CSE.
NOTE CONF
Others.
So maybe you could comment on the funding and what
NOTE CONF
you know, what sort of proportion of your costs that
covered.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
So we both got access to the scholarship, um, the
NOTE CONF
yes, and the Swiss Exchange mobility program.
And that gave us a yeah.
NOTE CONF
No, 1900.
It was more than that, I don't know.
NOTE CONF
It was it was 19.
It was 1900 francs a semester, which helped basically with
NOTE CONF
both rent and lunch in my case.
And the funny part about this is they pay out
NOTE CONF
the scholarship in cash.
So you're going to have to figure out how to
NOTE CONF
get that cash into your bank account if you don't
make a Swiss account, which I personally didn't.
NOTE CONF
But otherwise you have that avenue available to you.
Uh, beyond that, I would say my costs for Zurich
NOTE CONF
were maybe 1.31.4 x compared to Edinburgh, but I know
I was spending more money in Edinburgh than I should
NOTE CONF
have been.
So again, grain of salt?
NOTE CONF
Um, yes.
I was wondering what it's like, obviously, since.
NOTE CONF
Um, so that so that really depends on the courses
you take.
NOTE CONF
Um, there is definitely a selection of courses where you
can do you can have a much easier time.
NOTE CONF
Um, but for the most part I would take.
So I'm particular personally, I'm very interested in systems and
NOTE CONF
security, which something is not for around the world.
So I was taking some particularly intense courses just because
NOTE CONF
I didn't know if I would have the chance to
do them again.
NOTE CONF
So if that's your right, I would say working more
than Edinburgh by a fair amount.
NOTE CONF
But I think I know Ross was especially good at
this and I tried when I could.
NOTE CONF
It is very possible for you to work over the
week and have your weekends free to actually do fun
NOTE CONF
stuff, so it's again a matter of how you do
work life balance, but it is definitely doable to have
NOTE CONF
a fun time while taking like, academically rigorous courses.
Yes.
NOTE CONF
What's the class size or teaching style?
Oh, that's that's a very good question.
NOTE CONF
So your third year bachelor's courses will have up to
150 or so students in them, so they'll be fairly
NOTE CONF
massive.
Um, I took a master's class with 11 students where
NOTE CONF
it was literally every lecture was a tutorial.
Um, but most masters courses I saw were roughly 60
NOTE CONF
people max.
Um, so the master's classes, your bandwidth may vary, but
NOTE CONF
for the third year undergrad especially, that's that's pretty much
they have to pass seven out of the eight courses
NOTE CONF
I listed.
So there's a lot of undergrads on those courses.
NOTE CONF
And teaching style, um, lecturing style is kind of different.
You'll get used to longer form lectures, uh, with a
NOTE CONF
less, less focus on the material and the lecture itself.
And then you do a lot of reading and catching
NOTE CONF
up after the lecture to actually pass what was explained
in the lecture.
NOTE CONF
And, um, another important thing is, uh, they are very
traditional in the sense that not every lecture is recorded.
NOTE CONF
So going to lectures is a priority.
And that's something I had to get used to because
NOTE CONF
I personally did not do that very well in second
year.
NOTE CONF
But you guys should please go to lectures.
Um, but but.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, if if there's more specific questions, feel free to
send me an email, because I know learning styles vary
NOTE CONF
and I'm happy to talk about it in depth.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Thank you.
That's great.
NOTE CONF
So our next, uh, talk is, uh.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
You brought your laptop.
Good.
NOTE CONF
Um, uh.
Or did you, uh, but you can plug.
NOTE CONF
Sorry.
Not very long.
NOTE CONF
Ago, but you should have gone.
Okay, well, maybe.
NOTE CONF
Maybe I could try to.
It's maybe simple if we don't switch the laptops.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so this is Pierre and Nick and from.
And they went to, uh, ETH.
NOTE CONF
Um.
Uh, sorry.
NOTE CONF
They went to EPFL.
Uh, sorry.
NOTE CONF
Excuse me.
Um, uh.
NOTE CONF
Uh, so ignore all of the secret stuff that, um,
you just saw.
NOTE CONF
Um, yeah.
Well, that might be.
NOTE CONF
Well.
Could you.
NOTE CONF
Is it possible to click the link instead?
I think that was the, uh.
NOTE CONF
Just a second.
Uh.
NOTE CONF
Uh, okay.
My my laptop's got too much stuff on it.
NOTE CONF
Oh, there we go.
Uh, wait a minute.
NOTE CONF
Give me a second.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Oh, there's a link.
Click a link, and then it should open up Google
NOTE CONF
Slides and you can click slideshow.
Uh, you click stop there.
NOTE CONF
Anyway, here's the here's the microphone.
I love it.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Hello.
NOTE CONF
Hello, lovely.
So hello everyone.
NOTE CONF
My name is Pierre.
Uh, my name is Nick N.
NOTE CONF
And I study CSS and maths.
Nick studies just CSS.
NOTE CONF
We went to EPFL.
You're going to hear us repeating a couple of things
NOTE CONF
because it's in many ways quite similar to ETH.
So in terms of the map of Switzerland, Lausanne is
NOTE CONF
highlighted in red there.
That's where EPFL is, Zurich.
NOTE CONF
You can see further away towards the north and that's
where ETH is.
NOTE CONF
Lausanne notably, is in the French speaking part of Switzerland,
whereas Zurich is in the German speaking part of Switzerland.
NOTE CONF
This is a bit what the campus looks like.
You're right on the lake.
NOTE CONF
You have a lovely view of the mountains.
It was one of my favourite things was getting up
NOTE CONF
from the accommodation every day, walking over a little hill
and I could see that most days now it's not
NOTE CONF
always that sunny, but it was that sunny quite often
actually.
NOTE CONF
And that's me working with my laptop from the bandstand
that you can see with the same view, which was
NOTE CONF
was gorgeous.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
So, um, now you covered the question of do you
need to speak French?
NOTE CONF
So I am not a French speaking, which is why
I'm taking the slide, but I don't think you need
NOTE CONF
to, um, over there.
Um, you can get around most places while just speaking
NOTE CONF
English.
Um, and if you're buying stuff, usually can use Google
NOTE CONF
Translate.
There's not too much difficulty if you're not French speaking.
NOTE CONF
Um, but I do encourage you, if you want to,
to take, like, the French courses they offer, because it's
NOTE CONF
nice to learn about the culture there.
And I think for the A1 courses, for those who
NOTE CONF
don't speak French and are starting from below, um, they
do teach a lot about Swiss culture as well.
NOTE CONF
And I learned a bit from there.
Um, so yeah, you don't need to speak French.
NOTE CONF
There's a lot of courses from English that's taught in
English.
NOTE CONF
Um, and yeah, most of the exchange students don't speak
French either, um, I think.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
And the masters students there as well, uh, most of
NOTE CONF
them converse in English, so.
Yeah, that's.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Now, um, so one of the reasons why we, I
think both decided to choose EPFL is because of the
NOTE CONF
world rankings.
It's pretty well rated in the world.
NOTE CONF
And I think teaching quality wise as well, being a
student there, it was definitely a really high standard of
NOTE CONF
teaching.
I think I had a professor who was answering like
NOTE CONF
Piazza equivalent questions at 12 a.m. and giving really detailed
answers.
NOTE CONF
So they do really care a lot about their students.
Um.
NOTE CONF
And.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Here.
Here as well.
NOTE CONF
Here.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Um, and that's just a, a photo and a screenshot
of, um, the master's courses that you could take in
NOTE CONF
EPFL.
A very small portion.
NOTE CONF
There's quite a lot that you can take there.
And notably, the master's courses are in English.
NOTE CONF
They're all taught in English, I think.
And a lot of the bachelor level courses as well
NOTE CONF
in CSS are taught in English as well.
Um, though some of the first and second year ones
NOTE CONF
are taught in French, but most of the third year
ones are taught in English.
NOTE CONF
So yeah.
So this is my course selection.
NOTE CONF
I do maths and CSS, so I have a bit
of a mix there.
NOTE CONF
I also had a little French course despite being half
French, I took a sort of slightly higher level and
NOTE CONF
and a little tiny music course, which is great fun.
So a little bit of potential to mix some things
NOTE CONF
in, but quite a lot of sort of machine learning
heavy stuff because going on exchange, you have the opportunity
NOTE CONF
to sort of make what you will of your, of
your courses, that some stuff that might not be offered
NOTE CONF
or that you would have to wait to be able
to take, say, in the Masters or in fourth year
NOTE CONF
at Edinburgh.
So I took a bunch these all of these CSS
NOTE CONF
courses are master's courses.
And then the bachelors was a mix of masters and
NOTE CONF
and and bachelors.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
And these are the courses I took, I mostly took
like fundamental courses that I thought, um, since I want
NOTE CONF
to be a software engineer, like a software engineer should
know about.
NOTE CONF
So this is kind of like the courses I took.
It's mostly software related, um, construction courses.
NOTE CONF
Um, there is one course that I would recommend if
you are, um, if you like, uh, building apps and
NOTE CONF
etc. it's the software enterprise.
I think I learned a lot from there.
NOTE CONF
Um, and yeah, other than that, there's a mixture of
bachelor and master level courses and just like shortage as
NOTE CONF
well.
I think I got better grades than the Masters one
NOTE CONF
for some reason.
Um, but yeah, sometimes the bachelors ones, I think they
NOTE CONF
drill you a lot in the concepts, so it's very
assignment heavy.
NOTE CONF
Whereas some of the master's courses, um, aren't as assignment
heavy and at least in my, um, experience.
NOTE CONF
So.
Yeah, they're.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
And um, life outside of university.
NOTE CONF
So, um, most of the life I had and fun
I had outside of university were correlated to this society.
NOTE CONF
It's called the ESN, um, Exchange Student Network.
It's very Erasmus student network.
NOTE CONF
Um.
It's great.
NOTE CONF
I feel like you should definitely join a lot of
the events from here if you go, because, um, everyone
NOTE CONF
sort of has the same mindset of kind of making
the most off exchange.
NOTE CONF
People are very open to meet each other.
I think it's one of the most beautiful parts of
NOTE CONF
exchange.
Like people are always making friends.
NOTE CONF
Um, it's always a good time.
People are open to doing activities and making the most
NOTE CONF
of it and travelling as well.
So do join this.
NOTE CONF
I think I made a lot of really great friends
just from the society alone.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
And.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, this is just, um, the schedule of the welcome
week.
NOTE CONF
So they have a welcome week as well.
And EPFL, um, and.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Sorry.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
This is an ESN welcome week.
NOTE CONF
So it's just for the exchange students, um, exchange students
and masters students join it.
NOTE CONF
Um, and.
Yeah, you can take I think you can buy the
NOTE CONF
welcome pack where you can take all of these events,
and it's sort of very intensive.
NOTE CONF
Uh, few days where you get to do a lot
of events and explore Switzerland a bit as well.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, these are more of the events.
Um, I think notably the events I had the most
NOTE CONF
fun and were like the ski weekend events.
I think you should join those if you decide to
NOTE CONF
go.
Um, and.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, that's.
So these are like couple photos.
NOTE CONF
That's me and Pierre up there.
Um, and and.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, that's a photo of the, uh, Swiss Alps with,
um, EPFL campus.
NOTE CONF
It's very beautiful.
The views, um, I think just five minutes ahead of
NOTE CONF
the campus, you can see, um, the view of the
lake as well as the Alps.
NOTE CONF
It's very, very beautiful in the morning and at night.
Um, and.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, it's and also you can there there's, there's public
transport, but you can also get a bike pass.
NOTE CONF
I got a bike pass which was 50 francs for
six months or for a year, and you could use
NOTE CONF
it for the whole, you could use bikes for the
whole year and you can rent them.
NOTE CONF
So, yeah, these are a couple more photos, um, from
the experience.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
So in terms of clubs outside of university, there's a
NOTE CONF
whole massive list.
This is just A to C in the alphabetic order.
NOTE CONF
So yeah, there's pretty much anything you can think of.
And in terms of sports, they have a fair few
NOTE CONF
as well.
So you won't run out.
NOTE CONF
Uh, I personally what did I do?
I did more ultimate Frisbee that I did at Edinburgh,
NOTE CONF
I did salsa with Nick.
We both went with a few a few people, which
NOTE CONF
is great fun.
Um, and I did a little bit of academic stuff,
NOTE CONF
but probably less than Shoreditch told you about.
Um, so yeah, you won't run out of stuff to
NOTE CONF
do, that's for sure.
I personally did a lot of hiking.
NOTE CONF
I did quite a bit by myself, but also with
the extension network and quite a lot of skiing.
NOTE CONF
I went ski touring for the first time.
That was there where you go up and down, which
NOTE CONF
was great fun.
And after my exams finished in June, they're not quite
NOTE CONF
as late as in ETH, they're in June or August,
which is nice, although it's still much later than Edinburgh.
NOTE CONF
Um, I did like I went hiking for like nearly
two weeks straight before I needed to start working on
NOTE CONF
my internship, which I really, really enjoyed.
So accommodation wise, these are the two places that me
NOTE CONF
and Next stage we were probably in some of the
best accommodation that they have on offer.
NOTE CONF
It's arranged for you.
There's a company that's associated with the university.
NOTE CONF
I stayed in this big circle called the Vortex, which
was built in 2020.
NOTE CONF
It's über modern.
It was lovely.
NOTE CONF
Next stayed in this place called the atrium, which is
also super modern.
NOTE CONF
Uh, and they were both right next to campus and
like, yeah, really nice places to be.
NOTE CONF
So other things to know that Switzerland.
Yes.
NOTE CONF
It's expensive.
It has a bit of a rep for it.
NOTE CONF
But actually as a student, we found that there are
ways to make things a lot cheaper than would be
NOTE CONF
if you went on holiday, for example.
For example, you can buy this transport card that gives
NOTE CONF
you half price on basically all the transport all year.
Or there are these friends passes that you pay a
NOTE CONF
fair amount, but not too much, and you can go
anywhere for the whole day with four people.
NOTE CONF
Also, ESL events that we talked about, there's like three
every single week, and they're all as cheap as you
NOTE CONF
could ask for it to be, basically.
And like she talks about, there's the scholarship, the Swiss
NOTE CONF
European Mobility program, something like that.
And that gives you like three and a half K.
NOTE CONF
So that's pretty nice.
And accommodations arranged for you, which is roughly the same
NOTE CONF
price as in Edinburgh depending on where you go.
Some places can be even slightly cheaper.
NOTE CONF
And we really enjoyed the campus.
We thought that all of that was brilliant.
NOTE CONF
So here's a bunch of links if you want to
note them down.
NOTE CONF
Some more stuff you can look into, but we'll hand
it over to questions if there are any questions.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Sorry.
NOTE CONF
How much was there?
Uh, I paid 700.
NOTE CONF
We both paid 130 francs.
So that's like £680 a month.
NOTE CONF
Um, that includes utilities of all sorts, but I think
the cheapest one by this company, you could get it
NOTE CONF
for like, £500 a month, which was.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Not too bad compared to the centre of Edinburgh.
What's the class size?
NOTE CONF
And also, can you take undergrad English courses.
Yeah you can take bachelors English courses.
NOTE CONF
You can take anything in the bachelors or masters.
So long as Don lets you basically.
NOTE CONF
And as long as the, um, there's an exchange coordinator
at EPFL that you need to run everything through as
NOTE CONF
well.
But he mostly just says yes.
NOTE CONF
So he's very nice.
You'll meet him if you go.
NOTE CONF
Class sizes just depends on the class.
I had one with 20 people and then a bachelor's
NOTE CONF
course with like, yeah, I don't know, 100 and something
people.
NOTE CONF
Um, it completely depends on the class.
Um.
NOTE CONF
Was there anything else you asked there?
Other questions?
NOTE CONF
Okay.
We were comprehensive enough.
NOTE CONF
Were we?
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Thank you.
Thanks.
NOTE CONF
So, um, that brings us to our last, uh, presentation.
If I can find it, uh, from, um, Ishan, who
NOTE CONF
went to Caltech.
Um.
NOTE CONF
A second.
Last year.
NOTE CONF
Now, Caltech, I'll just mention, I think this is one
of the, uh, one of the more desirable, um, exchanges
NOTE CONF
on the university wide, um, program.
Um, right.
NOTE CONF
Uh, but we do we do seem to get 1
or 2 places each year for informatics.
NOTE CONF
Hello.
All right.
NOTE CONF
Um, I'm going to keep this fairly short, considering that
people are tired by now, because so am I.
NOTE CONF
So, um.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
So our mission, um, first year student now went to
Caltech last year, and I will talk to you more
NOTE CONF
about it.
So I'll focus on why Caltech first.
NOTE CONF
Um, it's extremely research focus, which is why it's my
very first point on there.
NOTE CONF
Um, it has departments in areas of robotics optimisation, mathematical
optimisation, that is quantum theoretical, computer science, machine learning and
NOTE CONF
many more.
I've attached to link there for all the centres that
NOTE CONF
there are.
Uh, feel free to have a look.
NOTE CONF
Um, the other thing I would like to mention is
that you can do research during term.
NOTE CONF
In fact, it's encouraged for you to do so.
Um, you can reach out to professors in any of
NOTE CONF
those departments or others and go, like, I'm interested in
such and such.
NOTE CONF
Um, and then they will probably, like, meet up with
you and you can talk to them.
NOTE CONF
Um, there is also, uh, for over the summer, there
is a program called surf, uh, the summer Undergraduate Research
NOTE CONF
Fellowship.
Um, on the topic of what to do post your,
NOTE CONF
um, exchange, you have an option to stay at Caltech
and do, like, a summer research internship with them.
NOTE CONF
Um, and for visa extension reasons, that is the only
reason for which Caltech at least would extend your visa.
NOTE CONF
Um, so company internships do not get, um.
Well, you won't have help from Caltech.
NOTE CONF
Let's just say that, uh, I tried, um, one of
the reasons why I picked Caltech personally was mathematical rigour.
NOTE CONF
Uh, I'm more interested in the math side of computer
science.
NOTE CONF
And if you are a CS plus math student, you
probably will be too.
NOTE CONF
Um, fair note, I am not a Club Med student.
I'm just.
NOTE CONF
Yes.
So if I can handle the math, So can you
NOTE CONF
all.
Um, the Caltech is really small, and I cannot emphasise
NOTE CONF
enough how small it is.
It has roughly 2000 something total students across undergraduate, post-grad,
NOTE CONF
everything.
Um, I know people just before me, and, uh, well,
NOTE CONF
I think almost everyone before me was like, oh, large
class sizes.
NOTE CONF
I know there will be a question on that at
some point.
NOTE CONF
My class sizes were about 20 to 30 max for
everything, and that's like a heavy course when it reaches
NOTE CONF
30.
So super small class sizes.
NOTE CONF
And the benefit of that is of course, you get
more personal attention.
NOTE CONF
You can ask more questions.
Um, you feel less bad about holding of the class
NOTE CONF
time because everyone knows everyone, which also means that the
professor knows you.
NOTE CONF
So if you did badly, they will know and ask
you more questions.
NOTE CONF
Um, so watch out for that.
Uh, another big part about Caltech is its honour code
NOTE CONF
system.
Um, it says as a written there, um, the reason
NOTE CONF
why I bring this up is it's super integral to
sort of the community there and almost um, I think
NOTE CONF
during their freshers week, they have an entire lecture dedicated
to just the honour code, because it is that important.
NOTE CONF
And one of the best things that comes from this
is not just, you know, everyone is nice to you
NOTE CONF
and all that.
It's also that they're nice to you outside of classes
NOTE CONF
or in general on campus or around.
It's sort of like, um, well, it creates this really,
NOTE CONF
uh, nice and helpful environment for, well, you to be
able to sort of feel confident enough to speak to
NOTE CONF
anyone, um, and not be afraid of, like, I don't
know, them stealing your ideas and such because that's, um,
NOTE CONF
apparently there have been stories from Caltech where that has
happened, and they had to bring this up at some
NOTE CONF
point, and they sort of almost hammer it into you
so that that never happens.
NOTE CONF
So it's it's super nice that that is the case.
Um, another big reason to go to Caltech is that
NOTE CONF
there are many conferences that are either held there or
somewhere in California.
NOTE CONF
Um, a lot of the ones are just at least
the ones that I went to were just at Caltech.
NOTE CONF
So around any of those topics up there, and if
one of them is not there, probably somewhere, uh, near,
NOTE CONF
um, California or in California or other.
So that's a good reason.
NOTE CONF
Uh, if you're interested in aerospace, um, if you didn't
know, um, Caltech sort of doesn't own, uh, the Jet
NOTE CONF
Propulsion Lab, but manages it on behalf of NASA.
So if you're interested in that type of stuff, um,
NOTE CONF
unless you're American, you can't really go in the Jet
Propulsion Lab for legal reasons, but you can sort of
NOTE CONF
meet the folk there and sort of talk to them
and go like, oh, you know, I'm interested in maybe
NOTE CONF
you'll get something out of that.
Um, the other last point that I really want to
NOTE CONF
mention, especially because the weather today was not so nice,
California is super sunny.
NOTE CONF
Um, it is really, really nice weather.
It's on all year round, which means you get to
NOTE CONF
travel a bunch.
Hikes and such are something that I was super into,
NOTE CONF
and I did a lot of that.
And also just climbing outdoors if you're into that sort
NOTE CONF
of stuff.
So travelling is just super pleasant.
NOTE CONF
Um, let me move on from that.
Um, logistics.
NOTE CONF
Uh, most of this, you can sort of have a
look and read the slides will be uploaded, as Don
NOTE CONF
said.
Um, the important thing to look at here is I
NOTE CONF
remember there was some question about a English certificate and
such.
NOTE CONF
Um, Caltech does have a requirement that you have some,
um, you might need to take an English test.
NOTE CONF
So there is.
Okay, let me just put it this way.
NOTE CONF
If you're a local student here or from a majority
English speaking country, you probably do not need to.
NOTE CONF
I'm an international student and I need it to.
So please, um, sort of Google these things and or
NOTE CONF
when you do apply, you'll get emails about them.
So you will figure out if you need to or
NOTE CONF
not.
But it is not difficult because they allow allowed Duolingo
NOTE CONF
English tests as a way of proving your level of
English, and it's really easy.
NOTE CONF
Um, you also have vaccination requirements and such.
And for visa, I applied in June.
NOTE CONF
Um, but it's essentially whenever you receive this form called
the I-20 from Caltech, and they usually send it about
NOTE CONF
sometime in May.
So essentially as soon as you receive the form, apply
NOTE CONF
for a visa and you'll be fine.
All the costs and stuff are from my ear, so
NOTE CONF
expect that to be a bit higher now.
So it is on a much more expensive side of
NOTE CONF
things, although you're still paying much less than you would
if you were studying there.
NOTE CONF
Because if you were there, it's about, at least in
my area was about 65 K, the tuition fee USD.
NOTE CONF
Um, yeah.
Uh, accommodation is guaranteed.
NOTE CONF
You do not need to worry about it whatsoever.
Uh, it will most likely be back to the residents,
NOTE CONF
uh, me included, and everyone before me has been allocated
there.
NOTE CONF
I spoke to the exchange coordinator on Caltech side.
Apparently, that's just what they do.
NOTE CONF
So you can Google this.
You can look at pictures.
NOTE CONF
Apologies for not putting them up here, but you can
find them pretty easily.
NOTE CONF
Um, I'm going to focus a little bit on just
giving advice.
NOTE CONF
Um, and I want to upfront just tell you guys
it is a very math heavy university.
NOTE CONF
Um, so please be comfortable with sort of professors almost
at any given moment going like, okay, here is something
NOTE CONF
that I'm explaining informally.
IRA 124 I'm just going to write out the proof
NOTE CONF
and that happens a lot.
It's really nice.
NOTE CONF
Um, because they do go through it and sort of
obviously take questions and such.
NOTE CONF
But please be comfortable with that idea, particularly linear algebra.
At least a lot of the courses that I took
NOTE CONF
involved that most CSE courses there do in some form
or the other.
NOTE CONF
Um, mostly also because currently their biggest research focus is
machine learning.
NOTE CONF
And guess what the math behind that involves, right?
Um, so please do not sleep on any of your
NOTE CONF
math courses, regardless of whether or not you go or
go to Caltech or not.
NOTE CONF
Please, um, look up courses early.
Um, you don't have to worry about signups too much
NOTE CONF
because you can only sign up once you're actually there.
Physically.
NOTE CONF
You have to go to the registrar physically for your
first term and tell them what courses you want.
NOTE CONF
So just have an idea.
But a subtle point there is please account for your
NOTE CONF
interests changing between the time you apply to when you're
actually there.
NOTE CONF
Have sort of backup courses in case you're like, oh,
I was interested in this, but maybe by the time
NOTE CONF
you're actually there, you're like, I like this other thing,
and this university doesn't offer these courses, what will you
NOTE CONF
do?
So please just have sort of backups.
NOTE CONF
And this is just general to any exchange.
Um, a workload a lot, a lot more, uh, work
NOTE CONF
coursework, um, be prepared for spending your entire day in
front of a whiteboard and writing stuff out and trying
NOTE CONF
to, you know, figure out stuff because it it it
do be like that.
NOTE CONF
But in my opinion, it's not that the content itself
is so much more difficult.
NOTE CONF
There is just a lot more work for you to
do.
NOTE CONF
Um, everything will be explained really well.
You have office hours you can go to, which are
NOTE CONF
essentially sort of like these dropping labs that you can
just ask questions and they're super helpful.
NOTE CONF
Um, you can obviously email the Tas, the professor, um,
talk to their students is in fact, is encouraged for
NOTE CONF
you to speak to other students in almost every course
and sort of like draft stuff out on the whiteboard
NOTE CONF
and such, as long as you don't copy each other's
work.
NOTE CONF
So collaboration is a big part and well, yeah, it's
super.
NOTE CONF
It's a is a huge part of just Caltech.
Um, and yeah, this is also validated by some PhD
NOTE CONF
students that I met.
Um, and the last point, yeah, that you won't really
NOTE CONF
get treated, uh, differently as an exchange student.
In fact, I don't even think like, maybe after a
NOTE CONF
week or so of me being their officer of the
introductions and such.
NOTE CONF
Um, people forget that you're an exchange student almost immediately,
and they sort of you just kind of are a
NOTE CONF
Caltech student from that point on, which means that the
assumptions made about a Caltech student in the sense of
NOTE CONF
how they know these things, um, they must have done
these courses.
NOTE CONF
They must have seen this or not kind of applies
to you.
NOTE CONF
Now, uh, so please go talk to people in your
first week and make friends, because it will help a
NOTE CONF
lot with this.
Um, another thing that I want to quickly mention is,
NOTE CONF
unlike most other universities, Caltech works on a timely basis
as opposed to semester early.
NOTE CONF
So there's three terms, um, and you'll roughly be taking
4 to 6 courses, depending on sort of the, the
NOTE CONF
credits that the IT course is allocated per term.
So I did roughly 13 courses in total while I
NOTE CONF
was there.
Um, and you can also, uh, as I said before,
NOTE CONF
when I said you can do research, you can also
turn that into a course for you to do so
NOTE CONF
you can get graded on it.
It just helps out, um, a little bit with that.
NOTE CONF
So as I said, my, uh, slides were not very
many.
NOTE CONF
So I'm going to, um, well, here's some pictures from
my time there.
NOTE CONF
Um, to prove that I wasn't just in my room
the whole time, I did go out.
NOTE CONF
And I did see things as you guys.
You guys should, too.
NOTE CONF
Um, but anyway, if there's any questions, please do ask.
Questions?
NOTE CONF
Yes.
There are things that folks, uh.
NOTE CONF
For which every person has worked for me.
Um, they're not necessarily different, but I see what you're
NOTE CONF
trying to say.
Um, so.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So the question was what?
NOTE CONF
Caltech.
What kind of things?
NOTE CONF
Caltech focuses more on CSI.
Um, there is, well, heavy overlap between the two.
NOTE CONF
Um, the I will say this, the machine learning sort
of, um, research department is one of the largest and
NOTE CONF
very unsurprisingly.
Um, one of the professors there, uh, was head of
NOTE CONF
research at Nvidia and left that position very recently.
And you can I had her as one of my
NOTE CONF
professors for the machine learning course over there.
So the standard of that is, you know, uh, pretty
NOTE CONF
high.
But, um, it's it's not so much that that's the
NOTE CONF
only thing to focus on, though.
There is plenty of other, um, sort of research areas,
NOTE CONF
as I showed before.
Um, robotics is another huge one there.
NOTE CONF
Uh, electrical engineering department is one of the biggest departments
there.
NOTE CONF
So, yeah, if you're interested in that sort of stuff,
um, you have plenty of other opportunities other than just
NOTE CONF
I.
Love the questions.
NOTE CONF
Sure.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Of course.
Just do your research.
NOTE CONF
Yes.
Uh, as I said before, you can do research during
NOTE CONF
term, uh, if you want.
You just got to reach out, essentially.
NOTE CONF
Like, it's quite nice, like.
Like I reached out to one of the professors, um,
NOTE CONF
during my second term there and sort of just had,
like, a coffee with them, spoke with them.
NOTE CONF
They were like, you know what?
Let's just do something together.
NOTE CONF
Like, you don't even need to have something concrete in
mind, as long as you're just able to prove that
NOTE CONF
you are one good enough and two passionate enough to
do it.
NOTE CONF
Um, and for the summer, if you wish, you can
apply for SAF, which is the summer research program.
NOTE CONF
Uh, if you get in, they will extend your visa
for you to stay over summer.
NOTE CONF
And you can do that with a group or a
professor, whichever one you apply with.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Anybody else?
NOTE CONF
All right.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Cool.
Thanks.
NOTE CONF
Cool.
I'll just like to say one more thing, though, before
NOTE CONF
anyone starts clapping.
Um, I just want to shout out Donovan Ella here
NOTE CONF
for arranging all of this, managing all of this, helping
each one of our well, one of my fellow exchange
NOTE CONF
students out this entire time.
So please give him a round of applause, uh, for
NOTE CONF
doing all of this.
Um, and now I can take my leave.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, thanks.
That's very kind of you.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, I do my best.
Um, yeah.
NOTE CONF
Uh, on on the topic of help when you're on
these exchanges.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so you do have, uh, you have your, your
your student advisor back in Edinburgh.
NOTE CONF
You also have me for for academic help.
Um, the sway team.
NOTE CONF
I don't know what your experiences were, the people who
were on exchange, but they they guide you through this
NOTE CONF
process.
So you get allocated a place, and then there's a
NOTE CONF
whole bunch of things you have to do.
And they've been mentioned here, you know, as a visa
NOTE CONF
applications and all this stuff.
And I, I don't even see any of the many
NOTE CONF
emails that they're sending.
But I think that they're basically prompting you at every
NOTE CONF
stage of the way, you know, what you have to
do and so forth.
NOTE CONF
So, um, you know, you don't have to guess about
these things.
NOTE CONF
Um, you'll, you'll be told, okay, so thanks for showing
up and, you know, apply and, uh, you know, uh,
NOTE CONF
have a good time if you go on exchange.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
I think it's a great opportunity.